The Project Gutenberg eBook of One Thousand Secrets of Wise and Rich Men Revealed
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: One Thousand Secrets of Wise and Rich Men Revealed

Author: C. A. Bogardus

Release date: October 3, 2008 [eBook #26754]
                Most recently updated: January 4, 2021

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
        file made using scans of public domain works at the
        University of Georgia.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ONE THOUSAND SECRETS OF WISE AND RICH MEN REVEALED ***




Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
file made using scans of public domain works at the
University of Georgia.)






[Illustration: C. A. BOGARDUS
               CHAMPION QUICKSHOT OF THE WORLD.]




ONE THOUSAND SECRETS

OF WISE AND RICH MEN

REVEALED



C. A. BOGARDUS
Champion Quick Shot of the World



1907
DE LUXE · EDITION · LIMITED
SPRINGFIELD, MO.

COPYRIGHTED
1898
BY C. A. BOGARDUS

REVISED AND ENLARGED
1907
FOURTEENTH EDITION




Transcriber's Note: This ebook does not contain any text that
matches "The Art Department between pages 132-133," as listed in the
Contents.




CONTENTS.


Chapter.                                                        Page.

   I. Quick Shooting Records of C. A. Bogardus                     7

  II. Medical Department                                          10
      Accidents and Emergencies--What to Do                       19
      The Mind Cure                                               24
      Poisons and Their Antidotes                                 25

 III. Ink Department                                              27

  IV. Cosmetic Department                                         32

   V. Live Stock Department                                       35
      How to tell the Age of Horses, Cattle, etc.                 39

  VI. Hog Department                                              43

 VII. Poultry Department                                          51

VIII. Chemical Department                                         54

  IX. Miscellaneous Department                                    61
      What to Invent, and How to Protect Your Invention           78
      Candy--Directions for Making all Kinds of                   85

   X. Coin Department--Illustrated List and Tables of Values of
      Rare Coins                                                  95

Loisette's System of Memory                                      107
      Useful Tables of Mnemonics                                 111

Facts Worth Knowing                                              121

Art Department                                 between pages 132-133

Gems of Thought from Poor Richard's Almanac, etc.                135
      Robert Burns                                               147

  XI. Oratorical Department                                      149
      Patrick Henry's Speech                                     149
      Abraham Lincoln's Speech                                   152
      Wm. J. Bryan's Speeches                                    153

Speeches of C. A. Bogardus                                       164

Address Delivered at Farmington, Iowa                            165

Speech at Decatur, Indiana                                       169

Speech at Jacksonville, Ill.                                     174

What Next                                                        189




ANNOUNCEMENT.


SPRINGFIELD, MO., August 28th, 1907.

TO THE PUBLIC:

In as much as the former editions of this book have been so well liked,
excepting the type being so small, it has been mentioned by many that a
correction in that particular would be well. I have revised and
enlarged the book and it now appears from larger type.

C. A. B.




PREFACE.


Agesilaus, king of Sparta, being asked what things he thought most
proper for _boys to learn_, replied: "Those things which they should
_practice_ when they become _men_." His reply was in perfect harmony
with the good judgment of mankind, and cannot fail to be appreciated by
all who have good common sense. If Agesilaus lived at the present time,
the question would most probably have included both boys and girls, and
undoubtedly his reply would be so worded as to apply to men and women.

Mankind, especially of the United States, has two great duties. First,
that of self-support and education. Second, that of governmental
support and national enlightenment. While I have thus divided man's
responsibility in two parts, it might not be improper to obliviate the
dividing line and say that man's duties are all under one comprehensive
head, viz.: "Mankind's duty is to man." However, in the preparation of
this volume the dividing line is recognized and two general departments
are presented; that of domestic or household economy, and national or
political economy. The former department is a compilation of useful
household formulas so arranged and worded as to form a neat and concise
household receipt book. Frequent reference to its pages will impart
such information as will enable the reader to save money and at the
same time enjoy life.

Department number two treats on social questions that are now knocking
at humanity's intellectual threshold for admission and solution.

Records show that less than one-thirtieth part of the time of man in
general is consumed in productive pursuits, yet some people toil
diligently three-fifths of their time and receive only a scanty living.
To assist in making clear the road to private and national prosperity
is therefore the motive which actuates me in the publication of this
book.

C. A. B.




CHAPTER I.

QUICK SHOOTING RECORDS.


From the time I was twelve years old I was considered a very fine shot
with a rifle, although I did but very little shooting, and, in fact,
did not know that I was any more than a common marksman; yet in any
contests while a boy I always won.

One day in June, 1884, while passing a shooting gallery, my friends
called me in for a match to pay for shots: I beat them all shooting, my
score was 11 consecutive bull's eyes, while none of my friends had made
half that score. The boys said I did well, to which I jestingly
remarked that "that was common shooting for me; just throw up an apple
and I will hit it." The apple was thrown up, and I hit it, which was as
much of a surprise to me as it was to any of the rest. I then borrowed
a 22-calibre Stevens rifle and practiced shooting at objects thrown in
the air, first shooting at tomato cans, afterwards at smaller objects,
and finally at marbles and various other small objects. By practicing
half an hour a day, within a month I could hit 70 per cent of the glass
balls which were thrown in the air. On July 4, 1884, I shot a match
with James Robinson, at Pratt, Kansas; conditions, 10 glass balls each
at 21 foot rise, he using a shot gun, I a rifle; I lost with a score of
4 to 6. This is the only match I ever lost with a rifle against a shot
gun. The trouble with me was, this being my first match, I was thinking
more about the stake money than the shooting. Besides the stake money
which I lost, I had to treat all the boys who attended the match; they
all laughed and had a good time at my expense.

The next day after my shoot with Robinson, I sent to P. Power & Son, of
Cincinnati, for a 32-calibre Winchester repeating rifle. I continued
practicing with the Winchester for about six weeks, when I challenged
G. W. Washburn of Kingman, Kansas, to a match. (Mr. W. was at that time
champion of Kingman County.) He to use a shot gun at glass balls from a
Moles rotary trap, 21 yards rise, I to use a 32-calibre Winchester,
balls from a straight trap, 10-1/2 yards rise, 50 balls each. In the
toss up I won and preferred to shoot second. The score was a tie on 47
balls; we shot the tie off at 10 balls each; again we tied on ten balls
straight. The match was continued at 10 balls more each. By this time
things had become a little exciting. Over $1500 was bet; many were
betting $4 to $1 against me, thinking that I would lose my nerve and go
to missing. Mr. W. walked to the score for the third time and broke 9
balls out of 10 shot at; it then came my turn to shoot, and I hit nine
balls in succession when I was interrupted by a big fellow who offered
to bet $25 I would miss the 10th ball; this bet was accepted, and it
turned out that the fellow had just spoken in time to lose his $25, for
the 10th ball had not got eight feet from the trap when I broke it. I
won this match with a score of 67 against 66 out of 70 balls shot at. I
then went to shooting at glass balls with rifle against a shot gun, and
in the past 20 years I have competed against 206 good trap shots and
have not lost a match. I will mention only a few of them. In the summer
of '85, in Medicine Lodge, Kansas, an expert shooter came over from
Cold Water, Kansas, to shoot with me. We had a match at target,
distance 90 feet, with 22-calibre Stephens rifle; he used globe and
peep sight, I used open sights. The score stood in my favor 114 to 107
out of a possible 120, at a quarter-inch bull's eye. The next day we
shot a match at 100 glass balls, he using a shot gun, I a rifle. The
score stood 99 to 94 in my favor. I will mention a match which I had in
Omaha, Nebraska, in August, 1886. There was nothing very striking about
this match because of fine shooting; I only mention it to show how
unfair people sometimes are toward strangers. I have forgotten the
man's name, but he was a barber working on Tenth street; he held a
championship medal that he had won in Dakota with a Winchester rifle at
glass balls. He challenged me to shoot three matches: First, 100 glass
balls hanging still from the limb of a tree, fifty yards distance.
Second match at 100 balls, 10 yards rise, thrown by hand. Third match,
each to shoot 100 glass balls laid on the ground in a circle 200 feet
in circumference, balls two feet apart, shooter to stand in the center
of the circle, the one who broke the balls in the shortest time to win,
but neither of us was allowed more than 133 shots in which to break the
100 balls. I had heard a good deal said of this man, over Nebraska
everywhere he was spoken of as a fine shot, and in the first match I
was really afraid of being beaten, for I never had practiced a great
amount at stationary targets, but on the whole I was not afraid, for
the party who won two out of the series of matches was to be declared
the winner. In the first match I broke 100 balls in 206 shots, while my
opponent broke 82 in the same number of shots; this made me easy winner
of the first match. In the second match all kinds of tricks were
resorted to, to beat me. My opponent's friends tried to rattle me by
offering to bet that I would miss certain balls, but when they failed
in this, the party throwing the balls would first throw a ball four
feet high, then one 20 feet high, while my opponent's were thrown
uniformly. Notwithstanding the fact that I was treated very unfair, the
score stood a tie on 83 balls out of 100. In the third match at 100
balls in shortest time, I won easily, breaking the 100 balls in two
minutes and three seconds, shooting 127 shots, while my opponent broke
61 balls in 133 shots, time four minutes, forty-two seconds. In Fort
Smith, Arkansas, March 21, 1889, I shot on time at 100 glass balls
against five men with shot guns, I using a 32-calibre Winchester rifle.
I broke 100 balls in ninety-five seconds, while the five men broke 100
balls in three minutes and two seconds. Ravena, Ohio, July 4, 1890, I
broke 250 glass balls in four minutes and sixteen seconds. At Newark,
N.Y., July 4, 1891, I broke 81 glass balls in seventy-four seconds, 31
of which I broke in sixteen seconds, which is far the best record ever
made with a rifle. In all of the matches I had assistants to load. I
have hit 39 44-calibre cartridge shells out of 110 thrown up, 67
22-calibre cartridge shells out of 110 thrown up. The most difficult
feat I ever performed was hitting 7 balls thrown up at one time. This I
did at Shelby, Michigan, October 24, 1889, using a 44-calibre
Winchester rifle loaded with shot cartridges. On July 4, 1893, I hit
1000 wooden balls with 22-calibre Marlin rifle in 17-1/4 minutes, which
is 9.25 minutes quicker than the feat has ever been accomplished by any
other person.

I have thrown an object into the air and hit it 12 times before it
struck the ground, I using an automatic shot gun.

In concluding this article, I will suggest to those learning to shoot,
that as a workman is known by the kind of tools he uses, it is equally
true of the marksman. In order to do good shooting a good gun must be
used. As a repeating rifle I have never seen the equal of the Marlin,
model '92. When the gun is kept in good repair, used with well loaded
cartridges, it is absolutely sure to repeat, a thing that I cannot say
of any other repeating rifle. Although others are good, I consider the
Marlin the _best_.

C. A. BOGARDUS,
_Champion Quick Shot of the World._




CHAPTER II.

MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.[1]


BOGARDUS' LINIMENT.--Take two ozs. Oil Cajeput, one oz. Oil Sassafras,
one oz. Oil Cloves, one oz. Oil Organum, 1/2-oz. Oil Mustard, one oz.
Tinc. Capsicum, two ozs. Gum Camphor, one-half Gallon of Alcohol. Use
as other liniments for any ache or pain. For sore throat or hoarseness,
saturate a towel with the liniment, place it over the mouth, let it
remain so for 4 or 5 hours, and you will be cured. For croup, bathe
throat and chest with the liniment. Give one-fourth teaspoonful of
liniment in one teaspoonful of warm water every 5 to 10 minutes till
relieved. Also, let the child breathe the fumes of the liniment. I
especially recommend this liniment for general family use.

      [1] NOTE--It is not pretended that in every instance the formulas
      are absolutely those used to make the medicines as indicated
      herein; but in every instance the medicines are equally good,
      when made according to instructions.

HEALING SALVE.--One lb. Lard, 1/2 lb. Resin, 1/2 lb. Sweet Elder bark.
Simmer over a slow fire 4 hours, or until it forms a hard, brown salve.
This is for the cure of cuts, bruises, boils, old sores and all like
ailments. Spread on a cotton cloth and apply to the parts affected.

SPECIFIC INFLAMMATORY RHEUMATISM.--One oz. Salt Petre, pulverized; one
pint Sweet Oil. Bathe the parts affected three times a day with this
mixture and a speedy cure will be the result.

ANOTHER SALVE.--One oz. Sheep's Tallow, Beeswax one oz., one-half oz.
Sweet Oil, one-half oz. Red Lead, two ozs. Gum Camphor. Fry all these
together in a stone dish. Continue to simmer for 4 hours. Spread on
green basswood leaves or paper and apply to the sore.

MAGNETIC OINTMENT.--One lb. Elder Bark, one lb. Spikenard Root, one lb.
Yellow Dock Root. Boil in two gallons of water down to one, then press
the strength out of the bark and roots and boil the liquid down to
one-half gallon. Add 8 lbs. of best Resin, one lb. Beeswax, and Tallow
enough to soften. Apply to the sores, etc., by spreading on linen
cloth.

OINTMENT STRAMONIUM.--One lb. Stramonium Leaves, three lbs. Lard,
one-half lb. Yellow Wax. Boil the Stramonium Leaves in the Lard until
they become pliable, then strain through linen. Lastly add the wax
previously melted and stir until they are cold. This a useful anodyne
application in irritable ulcers, painful hemorrhoids, and in cutaneous
eruptions.

CATHARTIC PILLS.--One-half oz. extract Colacinth, in powder, three
drms. Jolop in powder, three drms. Calomel, two scru. Gamboge in
powder. Mix these together and with water form into mass and roll into
180 pills. Dose, one pill as a mild laxative, two in vigorous
operations. Use in all bilious diseases when purges are necessary.

FOR HEARTBURN--LOZENGES.--One oz. Gum Arabic, one oz. pulverized
Licorice Root, one-fourth oz. Magnesia. Add water to make into
lozenges. Let dissolve in mouth and swallow.

ANOTHER COUGH CURE--(GOOD).--Take the white of an egg and pulverized
sugar; beat to a froth. Take a tablespoonful every hour for 3 or 4
hours.

TETTER OINTMENT.--One oz. Spirits Turpentine, one ounce Red Precipitate
in powder, one oz. Burgundy Pitch in powder, one lb. Hog's Lard. Melt
all these ingredients over a slow fire until the ointment is formed.
Stir until cold. Spread on a linen rag and apply to the parts affected.

A SURE CURE FOR PILES.--Confection of Senna, two ozs., Cream of Tartar
one oz., Sulphur one oz., Syrup of Ginger, enough to make a stiff
paste; mix. A piece as large as a nut is to be taken as often as
necessary to keep the bowels open. One of the best remedies known.

DIPHTHERIA.--Take a clean clay tobacco pipe, put a live coal in it,
then put common tar on the fire and smoke it, inhaling and breathing
back through the nostrils.

FEVER AND AGUE.--Quinine one scru., Elixir Vitriol one drm. Dissolve
the Quinine in the Elixir and Tinc. of Black Cohash fourteen drops.
Dose: 20 drops in a little water once an hour.

CORNS.--A SURE CURE AND PAINLESS ERADICATION.--Extract of Cannabis
Indicus ten grs., Salicylic Acid 6 grs., Collodion one oz. Mix and
apply with a camel's hair pencil so as to form a thick covering over
the corn for 3 or 4 nights. Take a hot foot bath and the corn can
easily be removed with the aid of a knife.

MAGIC OIL.--One gallon Sweet Oil, two ozs. Oil Hemlock, two ozs. Oil
Organum, two ozs. Chloroform, four ozs. Spirits Ammonia. Mix. Let it
stand 24 hours and it is ready for use. Dose, internally, one
teaspoonful for adults. Bathe the affected parts well. This is a great
remedy for aches and pains, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, and all nervous and
inflammatory diseases.

CURE FOR SORE THROAT IN ALL ITS DIFFERENT FORMS.--Two ozs. Cayenne
Pepper, one oz. common Salt, one-half pint of Vinegar. Warm over a slow
fire and gargle the throat and mouth every hour. Garlic and Onion
poultice applied to the outside. Castor Oil, one spoonful to keep the
bowels open.

DROPS OF LIFE.--One oz. Gum Opium, one drm. Gum Kino, forty grs. Gum
Camphor, one-half ounce Nutmeg powdered, one pint French Brandy. Let
stand from one to ten days. Dose, from 30 to 40 drops for an adult;
children, half doses. This is one of the most valuable preparations in
the Materia Medica, and will in some dangerous hours, when all hope is
fled, and the system is racked with pain, be the soothing balm which
cures the most dangerous disease to which the human body is
liable--flux, dysentery and all summer complaints.

CATARRH, POSITIVE CURE.--Carbolic Acid, ten to twenty drops; Vaseline,
one to two ozs. Mix and use with an atomizer 3 or 4 times per day.

COUGH DROPS.--Tinc. Aconite 5 drops, Tinc. Asclepias one drm.,
Glycerine two ozs., Syrup of Wild Cherry. Mix and take a teaspoonful
every 40 minutes until relieved.

EYE WATER.--Table Salt and White Vitriol, each one teaspoonful. Heat
them on earthen dish until dry. Now add them to soft water one-half
pint. White Sugar one teaspoonful, Blue Vitriol a piece as large as a
common pea. Should this be too strong add a little more water. Apply to
the eye 3 or 4 times a day.

TO REMOVE TAPE WORM.--Let the patient miss two meals. Give two
teaspoonfuls powdered Kamala. Should the bowels not move within two
and-a half hours, give another teaspoonful of the Kamala. You may
follow this in two hours by from half to one oz. Castor Oil. This is a
positive cure for Tape Worm. It will not make the patient sick. In
buying the drug be sure and get Kamala, not Camellea. Kamala is in
appearance like quite red brick dust, and is nearly tasteless, whereas
Camellea is of a yellowish color.

A SURE CURE FOR SMALL POX.--A gentleman contributes to the _Chicago
News_ the following as a sure and never failing cure for small pox: One
ounce Cream of Tartar dissolved in pint of boiling water, to be drank
when cold at intervals. It can be taken at any time, and as a
preventive as well as a curative. It is known to have cured in
thousands of cases without a failure.

TO STRENGTHEN AND INVIGORATE THE SYSTEM.--Two drms. Essential Salt of
the Round Leaf Cornel, one scru. Extract Rhubarb, one scru. Ginger
Powder. Make into pills, and take for a dose 2 or 3 twice a day.

GONORRHEA.--Balsam of Copabia one oz., Oil of Cubebs two drms.,
Laudanum one dram, Mucilage of Gum Arabic two ozs., Sweet Spirits Nitre
half oz., Compound Spirits Lavender three drms., Camphor Water four
ozs., White Sugar two drms., Oil of Partridge Berry five drops. Mix.
Dose, a tablespoonful 3 or 4 times a day.

SURE CORN CURE.--One-half ounce Tincture of Iodine, one-half ounce
Chloride or Antimony, 12 grains Iodide of Iron. Mix. Pare the corn with
a sharp knife; apply the lotion with a pencil brush. Put up in one
ounce bottles. Sell for 25 to 40 cents. This sells to everybody. (See
price of labels.)

N.B.--The law imposing stamp duty on medicines, compounds, perfumes,
cosmetics, etc., has been repealed.

RUSSIA SALVE.--Take equal parts of Yellow Wax and Sweet Oil, melt
slowly, carefully stirring; when cooling stir in a small quantity of
Glycerine. Good for all kinds of wounds, etc.

PARADISE LINIMENT.--Take a gill of Alcohol, one-fourth ounce Tincture
Capsicum, one-half ounce Paradise Seed, cracked, and put all together.
For rheumatism, sprains, lameness, etc.

COURT PLASTER.--This plaster is a kind of varnished silk, and its
manufacture is very easy. Bruise a sufficient quantity of Isinglass,
and let it soak in a little warm water for twenty-four hours. Expose it
to heat over the fire until the greater part of the water is dissipated
and supply its place by proof Spirits of Wine, which will combine with
the Isinglass. Strain the whole through a piece of open linen, taking
care that the consistency of the mixture shall be such that when cool
it may form a trembling jelly. Extend a piece of black or flesh-colored
silk on a wooden frame, and fix it in that position by means of tacks
or twine. Then apply the Isinglass, after it has been rendered liquid
by a gentle heat, to the silk with a brush of fine hair (badger's is
the best). As soon as this coating is dried, which will not be long,
apply a second, and afterward, if the article is to be very superior, a
third. When the whole is dry, cover it with two or three coatings of
the Balsam of Peru. This is the genuine court plaster. It is pliable
and never breaks, which is far from being the case with spurious
articles sold under the same name.

A CERTAIN CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS.--Sulphate of Iron five grains, Magnesia
ten grains, Peppermint water eleven drachms, Spirits of Nutmeg, one
drachm, twice a day. This preparation acts as a tonic and stimulant,
and so partially supplies the place of the accustomed liquor, and
prevents that absolute physical and mental prostration that follows a
sudden breaking off from the use of stimulating drinks.

FRENCH LUSTRAL.--Take Castor Oil three ozs., Alcohol one and one-half
ozs., Ammonia one-sixteenth of an oz., well shaken and mixed together;
perfume to suit--Bergamont or any other perfume. Splendid hair
dressing. Three ounce bottles, twenty-five cents.

LUNG MEDICINE.--Take Black Cohosh one-half oz., Lobelia one-fourth oz.,
Canker root three-fourths oz., Blackberry Root three-fourths of an oz.,
Sarsaparilla one oz., Pleurisy Root one-half oz., steeped in three
pints of water. Dose, one tablespoonful three times a day, before
eating. Sure cure for spitting blood.

TOOTHACHE DROPS.--Four ounces pulverized Alum, fourteen ozs. Sweet
Spirits of Nitre. Put up in one oz. bottles. Retails readily at 25
cents per bottle. This is the most effective remedy for toothache that
was ever discovered, and is a fortune to any one who will push its
sale. It sells at every house.

MAGNETIC TOOTHACHE DROPS.--Take equal parts of Camphor, Sulphuric
Ether, Ammonia, Laudanum, Tincture of Cayenne, and one-eighth part of
Oil of Cloves. Mix well together. Saturate with the liquid a small
piece of cotton, and apply to the cavity of the diseased tooth, and the
pain will cease immediately. Put up in long drachm bottles. Retail at
25 cents. This is a very salable preparation, and affords a large
profit to the manufacturer.

GREEN MOUNTAIN SALVE.--Take one pound Beeswax, one pound of soft
Butter, and one and one-half pounds soft Turpentine, twelve ounces
Balsam Fir. Melt and strain. Use to heal fresh wounds, burns, scalds
and all bad sores.

WARTS AND CORNS--TO CURE IN TEN MINUTES.--Take a small piece of Potash
and let it stand in the open air until it slacks, then thicken it to a
paste with pulverized Gum Arabic, which prevents it from spreading
where it is not wanted.

LINIMENT--GOOD SAMARITAN.--Take 98 per cent Alcohol two quarts, and add
to it the following articles: Oils of Sassafras, Hemlock, Spirits of
Turpentine, Tincture Cayenne, Catechu, Guaic (guac), and Laudanum, of
each one ounce, Tincture of Myrrh four ounces, Oil of Organum two
ounces, Oil of Wintergreen one-half ounce. Gum Camphor two ounces, and
Chloroform one and one-half ounce. This is one of the best applications
for internal pains known. It is superior to any other enumerated in
this work.

PLAIN COURT PLASTER, that will not stick and remains flexible: Soak
Isinglass in a little warm water for twenty-four hours, then evaporate
nearly all the water by gentle heat. Dissolve the residue with a little
Proof Spirits of Wine, and strain the whole through a piece of open
linen. The strained mass should be a stiff jelly when cool. Stitch a
piece of silk or sarcenet on a wooden frame with tacks or thread. Melt
the jelly and apply it to the silk thinly and evenly with a badger hair
brush. A second coating must be applied after the first has dried. When
the both are dry apply over the whole surface two or three coatings of
Balsam of Peru. This plaster remains quite pliable, and never breaks.

A CURE FOR CANCER (AS USED BY A NEW YORK PHYSICIAN WITH GREAT
SUCCESS).--Take Red Oak Bark, and boil it to the thickness of molasses,
then mix with sheep's tallow of equal proportion. Spread it on leaves
of Linnwood green, and keep the plaster over the ulcer. Change once in
eight hours.

DAVIS' PAIN KILLER--One quart proof Alcohol, one drm., Chloroform, one
oz. Oil Sassafras, one oz. Gum Camphor, one drm. Spirits of Ammonia,
two drms. Oil of Cayenne. Mix well and let stand 24 hours before using.

AUGUST FLOWER.--Powdered Rhubarb one oz., Golden Seal one-fourth oz.,
Aloes one drachm, Peppermint Leaves two drms., Carbonate of Potash two
drms., Capsicum five grs., Sugar five ozs., Alcohol three ozs., Water
ten ozs., Essence of Peppermint twenty drops. Powder the drugs and let
stand covered with Alcohol and water, equal parts for seven days.
Filter and add through the filter enough diluted Alcohol to make one
pint.

BLOOD PURIFIER--B.B.B.--Fluid Extract Burdock one oz., Fluid Extract
Sarsaparilla one oz., Fluid Extract Yellow Dock one oz., Fluid Extract
Senna one oz., Syrup eight ozs., Alcohol two ozs. Mix.

BOSCHEE'S GERMAN SYRUP.--Wine of Tar two ozs., Fluid Extract Squills
one oz., Tinct. Opium two drms., Fluid Extract Sanguinarie two drms.,
Syrup of Sugar eight ozs. Mix.

CENTAUR LINIMENT.--Oil Speke one oz., Oil Wormwood one oz., Oil
Sassafras one oz., Oil Organum one oz., Oil Cinnamon one oz., Oil
Cloves one drm., Oil Cedar one drm., Sulphur. Ether one oz., Aqua
Ammonia one oz., Tinc. Opium one oz., Alcohol one gal. Mix. This is an
excellent liniment and good whenever a liniment is needed.

CASTORIA.--Pumpkin Seed one oz., Cenria Leaves one oz., Rochelle Salts
one oz., Anise Seed one-half oz., Bi. Carb. Soda one oz., Worm Seed
one-half oz. Mix and thoroughly rub together in an earthen vessel, then
put into a bottle and pour over it four ozs. water and one oz. Alcohol,
and let stand four days, then strain off and add Syrup made of White
Sugar, quantity to make one pint, then add one-half oz. Alcohol drops
and five drops Wintergreen. Mix thoroughly and add to the contents of
the bottle and take as directed.

HARTER'S IRON TONIC.--Calisaya Bark two ozs., Citrate of Iron two ozs.,
Gentian two ozs., Cardamon Seed two ozs., Syrup two ozs., Alcohol two
ozs., Water eight ozs. Mix.

HALL'S BALSAM FOR THE LUNGS.--Fluid Extract Ipecac one-half oz., Fluid
Extract Squills one oz., Chloroform one-fourth oz., Wine of Tar one
oz., Tinct. Opium, one-fifth oz., Fluid Extract of Mullen one oz.,
Syrup enough to make one pint.

GODFREY'S CORDIAL.--Tinct. Opium six ozs., Molasses four pints, Alcohol
eight ozs., Water six pints, Carbonate Potash four drms., Oil Sassafras
cut with Alcohol one drm. Dissolve the Potash in water, add the
Molasses; heat over a gentle fire till it simmers, remove the scum, add
the other ingredients, the oil dissolved in the Alcohol.

HALL'S HONEY OF HOARHOUND AND TAR.--Wine of Tar one oz., Fluid Extract
of Hoarhound one oz., Tinct. Opium one drm., Syrup Orange Peel one-half
oz., Honey three ozs., Syrup enough to make one pint.

HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA.--Fluid Extract Sarsaparilla one oz., Fluid Extract
Yellow Dock one oz., Fluid Extract Poke Root, one-half oz., Iodide of
Potash one-half oz., Syrup Orange Peel one oz., Alcohol four ozs.,
Syrup enough to make one pint.

HAMLIN'S WIZARD OIL.--Oil Sassafras two ozs., Oil Cedar one oz., Gum
Camphor one oz., Sulph. Ether two ozs., Chloroform two ozs., Tinct.
Capsicum one oz., Aqua Ammonia two ozs., Oil Turpentine one oz., Tinct.
Quassia three ozs., Alcohol half a gallon. Mix and you have a fine
liniment.

HOP BITTERS.--Hops four ozs., Orange Peel two ozs., Cardamon two drms.,
Cinnamon one drm., Cloves one-half drm., Alcohol eight ozs., Sherry
Wine two pints, Simple Syrup one pint. Water sufficient. Grind the
drugs, macerate in the Alcohol and Wine for one week, percolate and add
enough syrup and water to make one gallon.

HOSTETTER'S BITTERS.--Gentian Root (ground) one-half oz., Cinnamon Bark
one-half oz., Cinchona Bark (ground) one-half oz., Anise Seed one-half
oz., Coriander Seed (ground) one-half oz., Cardamon Seed one-eighth
oz., Gum Kino one-fourth oz., Alcohol one pint. Water four quarts,
Sugar one lb. Mix and let stand for one week, pour off the fluid, boil
the drug for a few minutes in one quart of water, strain off and add
the first fluid, and then the sugar and water.

INJECTION BROU.--Water four ozs., Nitrate Silver twenty grs., Tinct.
Opium one-half oz., Sulph. Bismuth and Hydratis two oz. Mix.

JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT.--Syrup Squills two ozs., Tinct. Tolu one oz.,
Spirits Camphor one drm., Tinct. Digitalis one drm., Tinct. Lobelia one
drm., Wine of Ipecac two drms., Tinc. Opium two drms., Antimonia two
grains. Mix.

JAYNE'S TONIC VERMIFUGE.--L. santonnie twenty grs., Fluid Extract Pink
Root three drms., Fluid Extract Senna two drms., Simple Elixir two
ozs., Syrup two ozs. Mix. Take tablespoonful night and morning.

MUSTANG LINIMENT.--Linseed Oil fourteen ozs., Aqua Ammonia two ozs.,
Tinct. Capsicum one-fourth oz., Oil Organum one-fourth oz., Turpentine
one oz., Oil Mustard, one-fourth oz. Mix.

S.S.S. FLUID.--Extract Phytolacca one oz., Fluid Extract Sarsaparilla
one oz., Iodide Potash one oz., Extract Fluid Xanthoxylon one-half oz.,
Culiver's Root Fluid Extract one oz., Acetate Potash one oz., Cinnamon
Tinct. one-fourth oz., Tinct. Cardamon Seed one oz., Alcohol four ozs.,
Sugar one-half pound, Water thirty-six ozs. Mix.

SMITH'S TONIC.--Fowler's Solution of Arsenic two drms., Culiver's Root
one oz., Syrup Orange Peel four ozs., Simple Syrup twelve ozs. Mix.
Then add Chinchonia forty grains dissolved in Aromatic Sulph. Acid.
Shake to mix well.

SOZODONT FRAGRANT.--Tinct. Soap Bark two ozs., Tinct. Myrrh one drm.,
Glycerine one-half oz., Water one and one-half ozs., Essence Cloves ten
drops, Essence Wintergreen ten drops, Tinct. Cochineal enough to color.
Mix. Accompanying the above is a powder composed of prepared Chalk,
Orris Root, Carbonate Magnesia, of each equal parts. Mix.

SHAKER'S CUTIVE SYRUP.--Fluid Extract Blue Flag twenty drops, Fluid
Extract Culiver's Root twenty drops, Fluid Extract Poke Root twenty
drops, Fluid Extract Butternut twenty drops, Fluid Extract Dandelion
twenty drops, Fluid Extract Prince Pine ten drops, Fluid Extract
Mandrake five drops, Fluid Extract Gentian five drops, Fluid Extract
Calcium five drops, Fluid Extract Black Cohoes thirty drops, Tinct.
Aloe thirty drops, Tinct. Capsicum ten drops, Tinct. Sassafras thirty
drops, Borax one drm., Salt three-fourths drm., Syrup three ozs., Water
eight ozs.

AYER'S CHERRY PECTORAL.--Take four grains of Acetate of Morphia, two
fluid drachms of Tincture of Bloodroot, three fluid drachms each of
Antimonial Wine and Wine of Ipecacuanha, and three fluid ounces Syrup
of Wild Cherry. Mix.

BROWN'S BRONCHIAL TROCHES.--Take one pound pulverized Extract of
Licorice, one and one-half pounds Pulverized Sugar, four ounces
pulverized Cubebs, four ounces pulverized Gum Arabic, and one ounce of
pulverized Extract of Conium. Mix.

SUCCUS ALTERNS (McDADE'S).--Fluid Extract Starlinga one oz., Fluid
Extract Sarsaparilla one oz., Fluid Extract Phytolacca Decandra
one-half oz., Fluid Extract Lappa Minor one oz., Fluid Extract
Xanthoxylon one-half oz., Syrup fourteen ozs., Mix. Teaspoonful three
times a day.

SEVEN SEALS OF GOLDEN WONDER.--Oil Cajeput two drms., Sassafras
one-half oz., Oil Organum one drm., Oil Hemlock one drm., Oil Cedar one
drm., Tincture Capsicum one-fourth oz., Alcohol enough to make one
pint.

WAKEFIELD'S WINE BITTERS.--Cinchona Bark four ozs., Gentian Bark two
ozs., Juniper Berries one oz., Orange Peel one oz., Lemon Peel fresh
sliced one-fourth oz., California Port Wine four pints, Alcohol one
pint, Water three pints. Digest or let stand ten days, then filter and
add wine enough to preserve measure.

ST. JACOB'S OIL.--Camphor Gum one oz., Chloral Hydrate one oz.,
Chloroform one oz., Sulphate Ether one oz., Tinct. Opium (non-aqueous)
one-half oz., Oil Organum one-half oz., Oil Sassafras one-half oz.,
Alcohol one-half gallon. Dissolve Gum Camphor with Alcohol and then add
the oil, then the other ingredients.

R.R.R.--Alcohol two pints, Oil Sassafras two ozs., Oil Organum twi
ozs., Camphor Spirits one-half oz., Tinct. Opium one oz., Chloroform
one oz. Mix.

PISO'S CONSUMPTION CURE.--Tartar Emetic four grains, Tinc. Tolu
one-half oz., Sulphate Morphia four grains, Fluid Extract Lobelia two
drms., Chloroform one drm., Fluid Extract Cannabis Indica two drms.,
Essence Spearmint ten drops, Hot Water eight ozs., Sugar four ozs.,
Dissolve the Morphia and Tartar Emetic in hot water and add the rest.

WARNER'S TIPPECANOE BITTERS.--Cardamon Seed two ozs., Nutmeg one drm.,
Grains of Paradise one drm., Cloves one oz., Cinnamon two ozs., Ginger
one oz., Orange Peel one oz., Lemon Peel one oz., Alcohol one gallon,
Water one gallon, Sugar three pounds. Mix and let stand for six or
seven days and filter. Then add enough water to make four gallons.

WARNER'S SAFE CURE.--Take of Smart Weed four pounds, boil for one hour
with one gallon soft water, adding warm water to supply waste by
evaporation; then strain off and add Acetate Potash four ozs., Sugar
four pounds. Boil again till sugar is dissolved, then add Alcohol eight
ozs., and flavor with Oil of Wintergreen cut with Alcohol.

WAKEFIELD'S BLACKBERRY BALSAM.--Blackberries crushed two pounds,
Boiling Water four ozs., Sugar four ozs., Jamaica Ginger four grs.,
Alcohol two ozs. Mix and add Syrup enough to make sixteen ozs.




ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES.

WHAT TO DO.


If an artery is cut, red blood spurts. Compress it above the wound. If
a vein is cut, dark blood flows. Compress it below and above.

If choked, go upon all fours and cough.

For slight burns, dip the part in cold water; if the skin is destroyed,
cover with varnish or linseed oil.

For apoplexy, raise the head and body; for fainting, lay the person
flat.

Send for a physician when a serious accident of any kind occurs, but
treat as directed until he arrives.

SCALDS AND BURNS.--The following facts cannot be too firmly impressed
on the mind of the reader, that in either of these accidents the
_first_, _best_ and _often the only remedies required_, are sheets of
wadding, fine wool, or carded cotton, and in the default of these,
violet powder, flour, magnesia or chalk. The object for which these
several articles are employed is the same in each instance; namely, to
exclude the air from injured part; for if the air can be effectually
shut out from the raw surface, and care is taken not to expose the
tender part till the new cuticle is formed, the cure may be safely left
to nature. The moment a person is called to a case of scald or burn, he
should cover the part with a sheet, or a portion of a sheet, of
wadding, taking care not to break any blister that may have formed, or
stay to remove any burnt clothes that may adhere to the surface, but as
quickly as possible envelope every part of the injury from all access
of the air, laying one or two more pieces of wadding on the first, so
as to effectually guard the burn or scald from the irritation of the
atmosphere; and if the article used is wool or cotton, the same
precaution, of adding more material where the surface is thinly
covered, must be adopted; a light bandage finally securing all in their
places. Any of the popular remedies recommended below may be employed
when neither wool, cotton nor wadding are to be procured, it being
always remembered that that article which will best exclude the air
from a burn or scald is the best, quickest, and least painful mode of
treatment. And in this respect nothing has surpassed cotton loose or
attached to paper as in wadding.

_If the Skin is Much Injured_ in burns, spread some linen pretty
thickly with chalk ointment, and lay over the part, and give the
patient some brandy and water if much exhausted; then send for a
medical man. If not much injured, and very painful, use the same
ointment, or apply carded cotton dipped in lime water and linseed oil.
If you please, you may lay cloths dipped in ether over the parts, or
cold lotions. Treat scalds in same manner, or cover with scraped raw
potato; but the chalk ointment is the best. In the absence of all
these, cover the injured part with treacle, and dust over it plenty of
flour.

BODY IN FLAMES.--Lay the person down on the floor of the room, and
throw the table cloth, rug or other large cover over him, and roll him
on the floor.

DIRT IN THE EYE.--Place your forefinger upon the cheek-bone, having the
patient before you; then slightly bend the finger, this will draw down
the lower lid of the eye, and you will probably be able to remove the
dirt; but if this will not enable you to get at it, repeat this
operation while you have a netting needle or bodkin placed over the
eyelid; this will turn it inside out, and enable you to remove the sand
or eyelash, etc., with the corner of a fine silk handkerchief. As soon
as the substance is removed, bathe the eye with cold water, and exclude
the light for a day. If the inflammation is severe, let the patient use
a refrigerant lotion.

LIME IN THE EYE.--Syringe it well with warm vinegar and water in the
proportion of one ounce of vinegar to eight ounces of water; exclude
light.

IRON OR STEEL SPICULAE IN THE EYE.--These occur while turning iron or
steel in a lathe, and are best remedied by doubling back the upper or
lower eyelid, according to the situation of the substance, and with the
flat edge of a silver probe, taking up the metallic particle, using a
lotion made by dissolving six grains of sugar of lead and the same of
white vitriol, in six ounces of water, and bathing the eye three times
a day till the inflammation subsides. Another plan is--Drop a solution
of sulphate of copper (from one to three grains of the salt to one
ounce of water) into the eye, or keep the eye open in a wineglassful of
the solution. Bathe with cold lotion, and exclude light to keep down
inflammation.

DISLOCATED THUMB.--This is frequently produced by a fall. Make a clove
hitch, by passing two loops of cord over the thumb, placing a piece or
rag under the cord to prevent it cutting the thumb; then pull in the
same line as the thumb. Afterwards apply a cold lotion.

CUTS AND WOUNDS.--Clean cut wounds, whether deep or superficial, and
likely to heal by the first intention, should always be washed or
cleaned, and at once evenly and smoothly closed by bringing both edges
close together, and securing them in that position by adhesive plaster.
Cut thin strips of sticking plaster, and bring the parts together; or
if large and deep, cut two broad pieces, so as to look like the teeth
of a comb, and place one on each side of the wound, which must be
cleaned previously. These pieces must be arranged so that they will
interlace one another; then, by laying hold of the pieces on the right
side with one hand, and those on the other side with the other hand,
and pulling them from one another, the edges of the wound are brought
together without any difficulty.

_Ordinary Cuts_ are dressed by thin strips, applied by pressing down
the plaster on one side of the wound, and keeping it there and pulling
in the opposite direction; then suddenly depressing the hand when the
edges of the wound are brought together.

CONTUSIONS are best healed by laying a piece of folded lint, well
wetted with extract of lead, or boracic acid, on the part, and, if
there is much pain, placing a hot bran poultice over the dressing,
repeating both, if necessary, every two hours. When the injuries are
very severe, lay a cloth over the part, and suspend a basin over it
filled with cold lotion. Put a piece of cotton into the basin, so that
it shall allow the lotion to drop on the cloth, and thus keep it always
wet.

HEMORRHAGE, when caused by an artery being divided or torn, may be
known by the blood issuing out of the wound in leaps or jerks, and
being of a bright scarlet color. If a vein is injured, the blood is
darker and flows continuously. To arrest the latter, apply pressure by
means of a compress and bandage. To arrest arterial bleeding, get a
piece of wood (part of a broom handle will do), and tie a piece of tape
to one end of it; then tie a piece of tape loosely over the arm, and
pass the other end of the wood under it; twist the stick round and
round until the tape compresses the arm sufficiently to arrest the
bleeding, and then confine the other end by tying the string around the
arm. A compress made by enfolding a penny piece in several folds of
lint or linen should, however, be first placed under the tape and over
the artery. If the bleeding is very obstinate, and it occurs in the
_arm_, place a cork underneath the string, on the inside of the fleshy
part, where the artery may be felt beating by anyone, if in the _leg_,
place a cork in the direction of a line drawn from the inner part of
the knee towards the outer part of the groin. It is an excellent thing
to accustom yourself to find out the position of these arteries, or,
indeed, any that are superficial, and to explain to every person in
your house where they are, and how to stop bleeding. If a stick cannot
be got, take a handkerchief, make a cord bandage of it, and tie a knot
in the middle; the knot acts as a compress, and should be placed over
the artery, while the two ends are to be tied around the thumb. Observe
_always to place the ligature between the wound and the heart_. Putting
your finger into a bleeding wound, and making pressure until a surgeon
arrives, will generally stop violent bleeding.

BLEEDING FROM THE NOSE, from whatever cause, may generally be stopped
by putting a plug of lint into the nostrils; if this does not do, apply
a cold lotion to the forehead; raise the head, and place over it both
arms, so that it will rest on the hands; dip the lint plug, _slightly
moistened_, into some powdered Gum Arabic, and plug the nostrils again;
or dip the plug into equal parts of powdered Gum Arabic and alum, and
plug the nose. Or the plug may be dipped in Friar's balsam, or tincture
of Kino. Heat should be applied to the feet; and, in obstinate cases,
the sudden shock of a cold key, or cold water poured down the spine,
will instantly stop the bleeding. If the bowels are confined take a
purgative. Injections of alum solution from a small syringe into the
nose will often stop hemorrhage.

VIOLENT SHOCKS will sometimes stun a person, and he will remain
unconscious. Untie strings, collars, etc.; loosen anything that is
tight, and interferes with the breathing; raise the head; see if there
is bleeding from any part; apply smelling salts to the nose, and hot
bottles to the feet.

IN CONCUSSION, the surface of the body is cold and pale, and the pulse
weak and small, the breathing slow and _gentle_, and the pupil of the
eye generally contracted or small. You can get an answer by speaking
loud, so as to rouse the patient. Give a little brandy and water, keep
the place quiet, apply warmth, and do not raise the head too high. If
you tickle the feet, the patient feels it.

IN COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN from any cause, such as apoplexy, or a
piece of fractured bone pressing on it, there is loss of sensation. If
you tickle the feet of the injured person he does not feel it. You
cannot arouse him so as to get an answer. The pulse is slow and
labored; the breathing deep, labored, and _snorting_; the pupil
enlarged. Raise the head, loosen strings or tight things, and send for
a surgeon. If one cannot be got at once, apply mustard poultices to the
feet and thighs, leeches to the temples, and hot water to the feet.

CHOKING.--When a person has a fish bone in the throat, insert the
forefinger, press upon the root of the tongue, so as to induce
vomiting; if this does not do, let him swallow a large piece of potato
or soft bread; and if these fail, give a mustard emetic.

FAINTING, HYSTERICS, ETC.--Loosen the garments, bathe the temples with
water or eau-de-Cologne; open the window, admit plenty of fresh air,
dash cold water on the face, apply hot bricks to the feet, and avoid
bustle and excessive sympathy.

DROWNING.--Attend to the following _essential rules_: 1. Lose no time.
2. Handle the body gently. 3. Carry the body face downwards, with the
head gently raised, and never hold it up by the feet. 4. Send for
medical assistance immediately, and in the meantime act as follows: 5.
Strip the body; rub it dry, then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it
in a warm bed in a warm room. 6. Cleanse away the froth and mucous from
the nose and mouth. 7. Apply warm bricks, bottles, bags of sand, etc.,
to the arm pits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. 8.
Rub the surface of the body with the hands inclosed in warm, dry
worsted socks. 9. If possible, put the body into a warm bath. 10. To
restore breathing, put the pipe of a common bellows into one nostril,
carefully closing the other, and the mouth; at the same time drawing
downwards, and pushing gently backwards, the upper part of the
windpipe, to allow a more free admission of air; blow the bellows
gently, in order to inflate the lungs, till the breast is raised a
little; then set the mouth and nostrils free, and press gently on the
chest; repeat this until signs of life appear. The body should be
covered from the moment it is placed on the table, except the face, and
all the rubbing carried on under the sheet or blanket. When they can be
obtained, a number of tiles or bricks should be made tolerably hot in
the fire, laid in a row on the table, covered with a blanket, and the
body placed in such a manner on them that their heat may enter the
spine. When the patient revives, apply smelling-salts to the nose, give
warm wine or brandy and water. _Cautions._--1. Never rub the body with
salt or spirits. 2. Never roll the body on casks. 3. Continue the
remedies for twelve hours without ceasing.

HANGING.--Loosen the cord, or whatever it may be by which the person
has been suspended. Open the temporal artery or jugular vein, or bleed
from the arm; employ electricity, if at hand, and proceed as for
drowning, taking the additional precaution to apply eight or ten
leeches to the temples.

APPARENT DEATH FROM DRUNKENNESS--Raise the head, loosen the clothes,
maintain warmth of surface, and give a mustard emetic as soon as the
person can swallow.

APOPLEXY AND FITS GENERALLY.--Raise the head; loosen all tight clothes,
strings, etc.; apply cold lotions to the head, which should be shaved;
apply leeches to the temples, bleed, and send for a surgeon.

SUFFOCATION FROM NOXIOUS GASES, ETC.--Remove to the fresh air; dash
cold vinegar and water in the face, neck, and breast; keep up the
warmth of the body; if necessary, apply mustard poultices to the soles
of the feet and to the spine, and try artificial respirations as in
drowning, with electricity.

LIGHTNING AND SUNSTROKE.--Treat the same as apoplexy.


MIND CURE.

THE MIND CURE, otherwise known in its various subdivisions as
metaphysics, Christian science, mental science, etc., is a species of
delusion quite popular at the present time. Every era of the world has
cherished similar delusions, for the mass of the human race, even in
what are considered the educated classes, are so unfamiliar with the
processes of exact reasoning that they fall a ready prey to quacks of
all kinds. The fundamental idea of the mind cure system is that there
is no such thing as sickness. Disease, says one of their apostles, is
an error of the mind, the result of fear. Fear is only faith inverted
and perverted. God, who is all good Himself, and who made everything
good, cannot have been the author of any disease. As disease,
therefore, is not a creation, it has no existence, and when the healer
has succeeded in impressing this fact upon the mind of the patient, the
cure is effected. It is curious to note into what utter absurdities the
need for consistency carries these apostles. Poisons, they say, would
be quite harmless if the fear of them was removed, but we have yet to
find the "mental science" teacher who will undertake to prove this by
herself taking liberal doses of aconite and strychnine. The illnesses
of children are explained by the hypothesis of hereditary fear. The
majority of the teachers of this new faith are women, many of whom, no
doubt, are sincere in their belief; but it may be safely stated that
the men engaged as the so-called physicians of the new practice are,
with few exceptions, unprincipled quacks, who have gone into the
business for the money they can make by duping the ignorant. As far as
there is any truth underlying the vagaries of mind cures, and their
boasts of remarkable cases of healing, it may be admitted that the mind
has much influence over the body. This fact has been recognized by
intelligent physicians for centuries. And that the peculiar modern type
of nervous diseases, which are so largely caused by excessive stimulus
of the nerves and the imagination, should be amendable to cure through
the imagination, is not strange. It will be noted that this mental cure
has effected its miracles mainly among women, where it has the
emotional temperament to work on, and almost wholly in the ranks of the
wealthy and well-to-do, where there is little or no impoverishment of
the system by insufficient food and excessive toil to hinder its
effects. We have not heard, nor are we likely to hear, of an epidemic
disease checked by the mind cure, or of the healing of acute affections
or organic troubles through its agency. Nor do we hear of its seeking
to carry its message of healing into the houses of the suffering poor
in large cities, where hunger, exposure and foul airs open wide the
door to fevers and all deadly diseases, nor yet into the hospitals for
contagious or incurable affections. In the presence of such realities
it would prove, as its votaries probably understand, a too-painful
mockery. Intelligently analyzed, therefore, this new revelation amounts
to nothing more than a quite striking proof of the remarkable influence
of the mind over the nervous system. Beyond this, the craze, in
attempting to disprove the existence of disease, and to show that
poisons do not kill, is simply running against the plain and inevitable
facts of life, and can safely be left to perish through its own
rashness.

While it must be admitted that many upright and worthy people are
followers of this faith, it can be asserted that to say "disease is
only a mental derangement" is carrying the idea of the power of mind
over matter entirely too far.


POISONS AND THEIR ANTIDOTES.

Always send immediately for a medical man. Save all fluids vomited, and
articles of food, cups, glasses, etc., used by the patient before taken
ill, and lock them up.

As a rule give emetics after poisons that cause sleepiness and raving;
chalk, milk, eggs, butter and warm water, or oil, after poisons that
cause vomiting and pain in the stomach and bowels, with purging; and
when there is no inflammation about the throat, tickle it with a
feather to excite vomiting.

Vomiting may be caused by giving warm water, with a teaspoonful of
mustard to the tumblerful, well stirred up. Sulphate of zinc (white
vitriol) may be used in place of the mustard, or powdered alum. Powder
of ipecacuanha, a teaspoonful rubbed up with molasses, may be employed
for children. _Tartar emetic should never be given_, as it is
excessively depressing, and uncontrolable in its effects. The stomach
pump can only be used by skillful hands, and even then with caution.

_Opium and Other Narcotics._--After vomiting has occurred, cold water
should be _dashed_ over the face and head. The patient must be kept
awake, walked about between two strong persons, made to grasp the
handles of a galvanic battery, dosed with strong coffee, and vigorously
slapped. _Belladonna_ is an antidote for opium and for morphia, etc.,
its active principles; and, on the other hand, the latter counteract
the effects of belladonna. But a knowledge of medicine is necessary for
dealing with these articles.

_Strychnia._--After emetics have been freely and successfully given,
the patient should be allowed to breathe the vapor of sulphuric ether,
poured on a handkerchief and held to the face, in such quantities as to
keep down the tendency to convulsions. Bromide of potassium, twenty
grains at a dose, dissolved in syrup, may be given every hour.

_Alcoholic Poisoning_ should be combated by emetics, of which the
sulphate of zinc given as above directed, is the best. After that,
strong coffee internally, and stimulation by heat externally, should be
used.

_Acids_ are sometimes swallowed by mistake. Alkalies, lime water,
magnesia, or common chalk mixed with water, may be freely given, and
afterward mucilaginous drinks, such as thick gum water or flaxseed tea.

_Alkalies_ are less frequently taken in injurious strength or quantity,
but sometimes children swallow lye by mistake. Common vinegar may be
given freely, and then castor or sweet oil in full doses--a
tablespoonful at a time, repeated every half hour or two.

_Nitrate of Silver_ when swallowed is neutralized by common table salt
freely given in solution in water.

The salts of _mercury_ or _arsenic_ (often kept as bedbug poison),
which are powerful irritants, are apt to be very quickly fatal. Milk or
the whites of eggs may be freely given, and afterward a very thin paste
of flour is neutralized.

_Phosphorus_ paste, kept for roach poison or in parlor matches, is
sometimes eaten by children, and has been wilfully taken for the
purpose of suicide. It is a powerful irritant. The first thing to be
done is to give freely of magnesia and water; then to give mucilaginous
drinks, as flaxseed tea, gum water or sassafras pith and water; and
lastly to administer finely-powdered bone-charcoal, either in pill or
in mixture with water.

In no case of poisoning should there be any avoidable delay in
obtaining the advice of a physician, and, meanwhile, the friends or
by-standers should endeavor to find out exactly what has been taken, so
that the treatment adopted may be as prompt and effective as possible.




CHAPTER III.

INK DEPARTMENT.


RED INK.--Two ounces Cochineal, bruised; pour over it one quart Boiling
Water, let it stand eight hours. Boil two ounces Brazil Wood in one
pint of Water, let it stand eight hours and then add the two together.
Dissolve one-half ounce Gum Arabic in one-half pint Hot Water; add all
together and let stand four days. Strain and bottle for use.

BLUE INK.--Six parts Persian Blue, one quart Oxalic Acid; triturate
with little Water to smoothe paste, add Gum Arabic and the necessary
quantity of Water.

INDELIBLE INK TO MARK LINEN.--One and a half ounces Nitrate of Silver
dissolved in six ounces Liquor Ammonia Fortis, one ounce Archill, for
coloring; one-half ounce Gum Arabic. Mix.

FOR YELLOW.--Write with Muriate of Antimony; when dry wash with
Tincture of Galls.

BLACK.--Write with a Solution of Green Vitriol and wash with Tincture
of Galls.

BLUE.--Nitrate of Cobate, wash with Oxalic Acid.

YELLOW.--Subacetate of Lead, wash with Hydrochloric Acid.

GREEN.--Arsenate of Potash, wash with Nitrate of Copper.

PURPLE.--Solution of Gold and Muriate of Tin.

BLACK.--Perchloride of Mercury, the wash is Hydrochloric of Tin.

BLACK INK.--Extract of Logwood one ounce, Bicromate of Potash
one-quarter ounce. Pulverize and mix in a quart of soft hot water. This
makes a beautiful jet black ink, which will not spoil by freezing.

COPYING INK.--One-half gallon of soft water, one ounce Gum Arabic, one
ounce Brown Sugar, one ounce clean Copperas, three ounces powdered Nut
Gall. Mix and shake occasionally from 7 to 10 days and strain. The best
copying ink made.

BLACK INK.--Shellac four ounces, Borax two ounces, Water one quart;
boil till dissolved and add two ounces Gum Arabic, dissolved in a
little hot water; boil and add enough of a well triturated mixture of
equal parts of Indigo and Lampblack to produce a copper color. After
standing several hours draw off and bottle.

GREEN INK.--Dissolve 180 grains Bichromate of Potash in one fluid ounce
of Water; add while warm one-half ounce Spirits of Wine, then decompose
the mixture with concentrated sulphuric acid until it assumes a brown
color; evaporate this liquid until its quantity is reduced one-half,
dilute it with two ounces distilled water, filter it, add one-half
ounce Alcohol, followed by a few drops of strong sulphuric acid; it is
now allowed to rest, and after a time it assumes a beautiful green
color. Add a small quantity Gum Arabic and it is ready for use.

BEAUTIFUL BLUE WRITING FLUID.--Dissolve Basic or Soluble Prussian Blue
in pure water. This is the most permanent and beautiful blue ink known.

VIOLET COPYING INK.--For blue violet dissolve in 300 parts of boiling
water, Methyl Violet, 5 B, Hofman's Violet, 3 B, or Gentiana Violet, B.
For reddish violet dissolve in a similar quantity of water Methyl
Violet BR. A small quantity of sugar added to these inks improves their
copying qualities. If the writing when dry retains a bronzy appearance,
more water must be added.

NEW INVISIBLE INK.--C. Wideman communicates a new method of making an
invisible ink to _Die Natur_. To make the writing or drawing appear
which has been made upon paper it is sufficient to dip it in water. On
drying the traces disappear again, and reappear again at each
succeeding immersion. The ink is made by intimately mixing Linseed Oil
one part. Water of Ammonia twenty parts, Water 100 parts. The mixture
must be agitated each time before the pen is dipped into it, as a
little of the oil may separate and float on top, which would, of
course, leave an oily stain upon the paper.

BUCHER'S CARMINE INK.--Pure Carmine, twelve grains, Water of Ammonia
three ounces, dissolve, then add Powdered Gum eighteen grains. One-half
drachm of Powdered Drop Lake may be substituted for the Carmine, where
expense is an object.

BRILLIANT RED INK.--Brazil Wood two ounces, Muriate of Tin one-half
drachm, Gum Arabic one drachm. Boil down in 32 ounces water to
one-half, and strain.

WHITE INK.--Mix pure freshly precipitated Barium Sulphate, or "Flake
White," with Water containing enough Gum Arabic to prevent the
immediate settling of the substance. Starch or Magnesium Carbonate may
be used in a similar way. They must be reduced to palpable powders.

INDELIBLE INK FOR MARKING LINEN.--Add Caustic Alkali to a saturated
solution of Corpous Chloride until no further precipitate forms; allow
the precipitate to settle, draw off the supernatant liquid with a
siphon and dissolve the hydrated copper oxide in the smallest quantity
of Ammonia. It may be mixed with about 6 per cent of Gum Dextrine for
use.

TO WRITE SECRET LETTERS.--Put five cents' worth Citrate of Potassa in
an ounce vial of clear cold water. This forms an invisible fluid. Let
it dissolve and you can use on paper of any color. Use quill pen in
writing. When you wish the writing to become visible hold it to red hot
stove.

BLACK COPYING INK OR WRITING FLUID.--Take two gallons of Rain Water,
and put into it Gum Arabic one-fourth pound, Brown Sugar one pound,
clean Copperas one-fourth pound, Powdered Nutgall three-fourths pound;
mix, and shake occasionally for ten days, and strain; if needed sooner
let it stand in an iron kettle until the strength is obtained. This ink
will stand the action of the atmosphere for centuries if required.

TO MAKE RUBBER STAMP INK.--Dissolve Aniline in hot Glycerine, and
strain while hot or warm.

COMMERCIAL WRITING INK.--Galls one ounce, Gum one-half ounce, Cloves
one-half ounce, Sulphate of Iron, one-half ounce, Water eight ounces.
Digest by frequent shaking till it has sufficient color. This is a good
durable ink and will bear diluting.

TRAVELERS' INK.--White Blotting Paper is saturated with Aniline Black,
and several sheets are pasted together, so as to form a thick pad. When
required for use a small piece is torn off and covered with a little
water. The black liquid which dissolves out is a good writing ink. A
square inch of paper will produce enough ink to last for a considerable
writing, and a few pads would be all that an exploring party need carry
with them. As water is always available the ink is readily made. This
is a perfectly original and new recipe. Any enterprising man can make a
large income out of its manufacture.

INDELIBLE MARKING INK WITHOUT A PREPARATION.--Dissolve separately one
ounce of Nitrate of Silver and one and one-half ounces of Sub-Carbonate
of Soda (best washing soda) in rain water. Mix the solutions and
collect and wash the precipitate in a filter; while still moist rub it
up in a marble or hardwood mortar with three drachms of Tartaric Acid,
add two ounces of Rain Water, mix six drachms White Sugar and ten
drachms powdered Gum Arabic, one-half ounce Archill and Water to make
up six ounces in measure. It should be put up in short drachm bottles
and sold at twenty-five cents. This is the best ink for marking clothes
that has ever been discovered. There is a fortune in this recipe, as a
good marking ink is very salable.

INVISIBLE INK.--Sulphuric Acid one quart, Water twenty parts; mix
together and write with a quill pen, which writing can be read only
after heating it.

HORTICULTURAL INK.--Copper one part, dissolve in Nitric Acid ten parts
and add Water ten parts; used to write on zinc or tin labels.

GOLD INK.--Honey and Gold Leaf equal parts, Turpentine until the Gold
is reduced to the finest possible state of division, agitate with
thirty parts Hot Water and allow it to settle. Decant the Water and
repeat the washing several times; finally dry the Gold and mix it with
a little Gum Water for use.

SILVER INK.--For silver ink the process is the same as gold,
substituting Silver Leaf for the Gold leaf.

INDELIBLE INK FOR GLASS OR METAL.--Borax one ounce, Shellac two ounces,
Water eighteen fluid ounces; boil in a covered vessel, add of thick
Mucilage one ounce; triturate it with Levigated Indigo and Lamp Black
q.s. to give it a good color. After two hours' repose decant from the
dregs and bottle for use. It may be bronzed after being applied.
Resists moisture, chlorine and gases.

BROWN INK.--A strong decoction of Catechu. The shade may be varied by
the cautious addition of a little weak solution of bicromate of potash.

LUMINOUS INK.--Shines in the dark. Phosphorous one-half drachm, Oil
Cinnamon one-half ounce; mix in a vial, cork tightly, heat it slowly
until mixed. A letter written in this ink can only be read in a dark
room, when the writing will have the appearance of a fire.

TICKETING INK FOR GROCERS, ETC.--Dissolve one ounce of Gum Arabic in
six ounces of Water and strain; this is the Mucilage; for a _black
color_ use Drop Black, powdered and ground with the mucilage to extreme
fineness; for _blue_, Ultra-Marine is used in the same manner; for
_green_, Emerald Green; for _white_, Flake White; _red_, Vermillion,
Lake or Carmine; for _yellow_, Chrome Yellow. When ground too thick
they are thinned with a little water. Apply to the cards with a small
brush. The cards may be sized with a thin glue, afterward varnished, if
it is desired to preserve them.

COMMON INK.--To one gallon boiling Soft Water add three-fourths ounce
Extract of Logwood; boil two minutes; remove from the fire and stir in
forty-eight grains Bichromate of Potash and eight grains Prussiate of
Potash. For ten gallons use six and one-half ounces Logwood Extract,
one ounce Bichromate of Potash, and eighty grains Prussiate Potash;
strain. Six cents should buy the former and twenty-five cents the
latter.

RED INK.--In an ounce phial put one teaspoonful Aqua Ammonia, Gum
Arabic size of two or three peas, and six grains No. 40 Carmine. Fill
up with soft water and it is soon ready for use.

INK FOR MARKING PACKAGES.--Take Lamp Black and mix thoroughly with
sufficient Turpentine to make it thin enough to flow from the brush.
Powdered Ultra-Marine instead of Lamp Black, makes a fine blue marking
mixture for the same purpose.




CHAPTER IV.

COSMETIC DEPARTMENT.


LIQUID FOR CURLING THE HAIR.--Two ounces scrapings of lead, half ounce
Litharge, one-quarter ounce Gum Camphor. Boil all in one pint of soft
water for half an hour. Let it cool; pour off liquid and add to it one
drachm Rosemary Flowers. Boil all again and strain, when it is ready
for use. Apply about once a week.

HAIR OIL.--One gallon Cologne Spirits, 90 per cent proof, one pint
Castor Oil, one ounce Oil Cinnamon. Mix well and it is ready for use.

POWDER FOR THE COMPLEXION.--Half ounce Tincture of Elder Blossoms, half
ounce Beef Marrow, half pint Orange Flower Water, one Cassia Buds, two
ounces Bitter Almonds, four drachms Spirits Oriental Roses. Mix, and
apply it in the evening and wash it off in the morning.

PASTE TO PRODUCE WHISKERS.--One ounce of Oil of Paricada, two ounces
Southern Wood Bark, one ounce Dog's Lard. Fry over a slow fire until it
forms a paste. Apply to the face once a day until the whiskers begin to
grow.

TO CLEAN THE TEETH.--Castile Soap and Cigar Ashes applied with a soft
rag is one of the best tooth preparations known.

TO MAKE THE HAIR SOFT AND GLOSSY.--One pint Alcohol, four ounces Castor
Oil. Mix, and flavor with Bergamot. Apply frequently with the hands.

TO REMOVE FRECKLES.--Use Oxolate of Copper Ointment.

HAIR TONIC.--Sugar of Lead five grains, Sulphate Quinine two grains,
Muriat of Ammonia one drachm, Glycerine six ounces, Distilled Water six
ounces. Mix and apply two or three times per day.

HAIR DYES. NO. 1.--Distilled Water six ounces, Alcohol one ounce,
Pyrogalic Acid one drachm. The Acid must be dissolved in the Alcohol
before the water is added.

NO. 2.--Aqua Ammonia one ounce, Water one ounce, Nitrate of Silver two
drachms. Dissolve the Silver in water and add the Ammonia. Cork tight
and keep in a cool place.

NO. 3.--Water four ounces, Sulphate of Potash half ounce. Mix. To dye
the hair or whiskers, have them free from dirt or soap suds. They
should be a little damp. Add carefully No. 1, using care not to allow
the dye to touch the skin. When somewhat dry apply No. 2; in about
three minutes apply No. 3. Use care not to allow any of these
preparations to touch the skin.

TO BEAUTIFY THE TEETH AND MAKE THE BREATH SMELL SWEET AND
PLEASANT.--One ounce Chlorate of Lime in a pint of Soft Water, and let
it stand 24 hours. Then pour off the clear water and add forty drops of
Essence of Rose.

TO MAKE THE CHEEKS AND LIPS ROSY.--Use a little Red Carmine.

PERFUMERY.--Oils of Rosemary and Lemon each a half ounce, Bergamot and
Lavender half drachm, Cinnamon four drops, Cloves and Rose each two
drops, Alcohol one quart. Mix and let stand one week.

HAIR RESTORATIVE.--Sugar of Lead, Borax and Lac Sulphur each one ounce,
Aqua Ammonia half ounce, Alcohol one gill. Mix and let stand 20 hours,
then add Bay Rum one gill, fine Table Salt one tablespoonful, Soft
Water three pints, Essence of Bergamot half ounce.

NEW YORK BARBER'S STAR HAIR OIL.--Castor Oil six and one-half pints,
Alcohol one and one-half pints, Oil of Citronella one-half ounce,
Lavender one-fourth ounce. Mix well, put in four ounce bottles, retail
for 25 cents.

CELEBRATED MOTH AND FRECKLE LOTION.--For the skin and complexion; a
great secret. Distill two handfuls Jessamine Flowers in a quart of Rose
Water and a quart of Orange Water. Strain through porous paper and add
a scruple of Musk and a scruple of Ambergris. Bottle and label.
Splendid wash for the skin.

IMPERIAL ONGUENT FOR FORCING WHISKERS AND MUSTACHE TO GROW.--Made as
follows: Two drachms of Benzoin Comp., two drachms Tincture of
Cantharides, six ounces of Castor Oil, nine and one-fourth ounces
Alcohol, one drachm Oil of Bergamot. Mix well, bottle and label. Apply
the Onguent night and morning. Circulation should be stimulated with a
rough towel.

CURLOLINE, FOR MAKING THE HAIR CURL.--One pound Olive Oil, one drachm
Oil of Origanum, one and one-half drachms Oil of Rosemary. Mix well,
bottle and label. Apply two or three times weekly. Will curl the
straightest hair if not cut too short.

HAIR RESTORATIVE AND INVIGORATOR.--For a trifling cost. Sugar of Lead,
Borax and Lac Sulphur of each one ounce, Aqua Ammonia one-half ounce,
Alcohol one gill. mix and let stand for fourteen hours; then add Bay
Rum one gill, fine Table Salt one tablespoonful, Soft Water three
pints, Essence of Bergamot one ounce. This preparation not only gives a
beautiful gloss, but will cause hair to grow upon bald heads arising
from all common causes, and turning gray hair to a dark color.

_Manner of Application._--When the hair is thin or bald, make two
applications daily, until this amount is used up. Work it into the
roots of the hair with a soft brush or the ends of the fingers, rubbing
well each time. For gray hair one application daily is sufficient.

JOCKEY CLUB.--Spirits of Wine five gallons, Orange Flower Water one
gallon, Balsam of Peru four ounces, Essence of Bergamot eight ounces.
Essence of Musk eight ounces, Essence of Cloves four ounces, Essence of
Neroli two ounces. Mix.

LADIES' OWN.--Spirits of Wine one gallon, Otto of Roses twenty drops,
Essence of Thyme one-half ounce, Essence of Neroli one-fourth ounce,
Essence of Vanilla one-half ounce, Essence of Bergamot one-fourth
ounce, Orange Flower Water six ounces.

UPPER TEN.--Spirits of Wine four quarts, Essence of Cedrat two drachms,
Essence of Violets one-fourth ounce, Essence of Neroli one-half ounce,
Otto of Roses twenty drops, Orange Flower Essence one ounce, Oil of
Rosemary thirty drops, Oils of Bergamot and Neroli each one-half ounce.




CHAPTER V.

LIVE STOCK DEPARTMENT.


Each and Every Recipe in This Department Has Been Tested by the Most
Eminent Veterinary Surgeons in the United States, and Pronounced by
Them as the Best.

WOUNDS AND CUTS.--Take four ounces Lard, Beeswax four ounces, Resin
three ounces, Vaseline four to six ounces. Melt these together and add
Carbolic Acid half ounce. This is excellent.

COLIC.--Gum Camphor one ounce, Cayenne one ounce, Gum Myrrh one ounce,
powdered Gum Quaial one ounce, Sassafras Bark one ounce, Spirits of
Turpentine one ounce, Oil of Origanum one-quarter ounce, Oil Hemlock
half ounce, Pulverized Opium half ounce, good alcohol two quarts. Mix
and let stand ten to twelve days and filter. Dose from one to four
teaspoonfuls in a pint of milk. Keep this on hand. It is the best colic
cure known.

LINIMENT TO KILL PAIN.--One gallon Alcohol, one ounce Tincture Cayenne,
two ounces Tincture Gum Camphor, two ounces Tincture Ammonia, one-half
ounce Chloroform. Mix well and let stand twelve hours.

BEST CONDITION POWDERS.--Fenugreek, Cream of Tartar, Gentian, Sulphur,
Saltpetre, Resin, Black Antimony and Ginger each two ounces, Cayenne
Pepper one ounce. Pulverize and mix thoroughly. Dose, two
tablespoonfuls once a day in feed.

BRITTLE AND CONTRACTED HOOFS.--Take Castor Oil, Barbadoes, Tar and Soft
Soap. Equal parts of each. Melt all together and stir while cooling,
and apply a little to the hoof three or four times a week.

CONTRACTED HOOF AND SORE FEET.--Take equal parts of Soft Fat, Yellow
Wax, Linseed Oil, Venice Turpentine and Norway Tar; first melt the wax,
then add the others, mixing thoroughly. Apply to the edge of the hair
once a day.

CRACKED HEELS.--Tar eight ounces, Beeswax one ounce, Resin one ounce,
Alum one ounce, Tallow one ounce, Sulphate of Iron one ounce, Carbolic
Acid one drachm. Mix and boil over a slow fire. Skim off the filth and
add two ounces of the scrapings of Sweet Elder.

EYE WATER.--White Vitriol and pure Saltpetre of each one scruple, pure
soft water eight ounces. Mix. This should be applied to the inflamed
lids three or four times a day, and if the inflammation does not lessen
in one or two days it may be injected directly into the eye.

The writer has used this for his own eyes, reduced one-half with water,
and dropped directly into the eye, which would cause the eye to smart
considerably for about five minutes, when he should bathe the eye with
cold water for a few minutes, and by repeating this three or four times
a day, it has given the best of satisfaction. It does nicely, many
times, to just close the eye and bathe the outside freely.

CURE FOR SWEENEY.--Alcohol and Spirits of Turpentine each eight ounces,
Camphor Gum, pulverized Cantharides and Capsicum each one ounce, Oil of
Spike three ounces. Mix. Bathe with hot iron.

FARCY.--Nitrate of Potash four ounces, Black Antimony two ounces,
Sulphite of Soda one ounce, Elecampane two ounces. Mix. Dose, one
tablespoonful once or twice a day.

FARCY AND GLANDERS.--Iodide of Potassium one and one-quarter drachms,
Copperas one-half, Ginger one drachm, Gentian two drachms, powdered Gum
Arabic and Syrup to form a ball; or, take one-half ounce Sulphite Soda,
five grains powdered Cantharides. Mix, and give at night in cut feed
for several weeks; give at the same time every morning and noon three
drachms powdered Gentian, two drachms powdered Blue Vitriol, give the
medicines for a long time; feed well. This is the best treatment that
can be given for this disease.

WOLF'S LINIMENT.--One quart Alcohol, two ounces Tincture Arnica, one
ounce Oil Hemlock, one ounce Oil of Spike. Mix well and let stand
twenty-four hours. This will cure any burn, scald, bruise, sprain or
any like ailment; also aches and pains of all kinds. Apply by wetting a
flannel cloth and wrapping it around the diseased parts.

CUTS, WOUNDS AND SORES.--Take of Lard four ounces, Beeswax four ounces,
Resin two ounces, Carbolic Acid one-quarter ounce. Mix the first three
and melt, add Carbolic Acid, stirring until cool. This is excellent for
man as well as beast.

FOR POLL EVIL.--Rock Salt one ounce, Blue Vitriol one ounce, Copperas
one-half ounce. Pulverize and mix well. Fill a goose quill with the
powder and push to the bottom of the pipe. Have a stick at the top of
the quill and push the powder out of the quill, leaving it at the
bottom of the pipe. Repeat in four days, and in two or three days you
can remove the pipe without any trouble.

CURE FOR SCRATCHES.--Sweet Oil three ounces, Borax one ounce, Sugar of
Lead one ounce. Mix and apply twice daily after washing thoroughly with
castile soap, giving time for legs to dry.

GREAT ARABIAN HEAVE REMEDY.--Give your horse a teaspoonful of Lobelia
once a day for a week and then once a week, and you will hardly know he
ever had the heaves. Try it.

BOTS.--Take new Milk two quarts, Syrup one quart, mix and give the
whole, and in fifteen or twenty minutes after give two quarts of warm,
strong Sage tea; half an hour after the tea give one quart of raw
Linseed Oil, or if the Oil cannot be had give Lard instead.

DIURETICS.--Take Balsam Copaiba two ounces, Sweet Spirits of Nitre
three ounces, Spirits of Turpentine two ounces, Oil of Juniper two
ounces, Tincture of Camphor two ounces. Mix; shake the bottle before
pouring the medicine. Dose for adult horse, two tablespoonfuls in a
pint of milk, repeated every four to six hours, if necessary. This is a
reliable preparation for kidney difficulties.

FOUNDER.--Vinegar three pints, Capsicum one-half drachm, Tincture of
Aconite Root fifteen drops. Mix and boil down to one quart; when cool
give it as a drench. Blanket the horse well; after the horse has
perspired for an hour or more, give one quart of raw Linseed Oil. This
treatment will be found good for horses foundered by eating too much
grain.

MANGE.--Oil Tar one ounce, Lac Sulphur one and one-half ounces, Whale
Oil two ounces. Mix. Rub a little on the skin wherever the disease
appears, and continue daily for a week, then wash off with castile soap
and warm water.

POLL EVIL AND FISTULA.--Tincture of Opium one drachm, Potash two
drachms, Water one ounce; mix, and when dissolved inject into the pipes
with a small syringe, having cleansed the sore with soap-suds; repeat
every two days until pipes are completely destroyed.

CONDITION POWDER.--Take Antimony Crude one ounce, Lobelia gr. one
ounce, Ginger two ounces, Sulphur Flour three ounces, Berberry gr. one
ounce, Cream Tartar four ounces, Saltpetre Flour four ounces; well
mixed. Dose, one tablespoonful each day in wet feed. Best in the
market; will sell well.

FOR BONE SPAVIN.--Hog's Lard half pint, best Oil Origanum one and a
half ounces, Oil Cajeput two ounces, pulverized Cantharides half ounce.
Mix, and apply each morning for four mornings, heating it in with hot
iron each time, then discontinue its use for three days, after which
use as before for five mornings. Wait about eight or ten days and if
not gone repeat as before.

ARABIAN HORSE TAMER'S SECRET.--Take Oil of Cummin, Oil of Rhodium and
Horse Castor. Keep separate in air-tight bottles. Rub a little of the
Oil of Cummin on your hand and approach the horse on the windward side,
so that he can smell the Cummin. The horse will then let you come up to
him without trouble. Rub your hand gently on the horse's nose, getting
a little oil on it. He will then follow you. Give him a little of the
Castor on a piece of Loaf Sugar or Apple; get a few drops of the
Rhodium on his tongue, and he is your servant. He will follow you like
a pet dog.

CURE FOR SPAVIN AND RINGBONE.--Cantharides one ounce, Mercurial
Ointment half ounce, Corrosive Sublimate a half drachm, Turpentine one
and a half ounces, Tincture Iodine one ounce, Gum Euphorbium four
ounces. Mix well with one pound of Lard. For spavin or ringbone, cut
the hair away and grease the part well with the ointment, rubbing it in
well. In two days grease the parts with Lard; wash it off in two days
more, and again apply the ointment. So continue until a cure is
effected, which will be in a short time. For bog Spavin, wind gall,
curb or splint, apply the ointment every six days.

JOCKEY TRICKS.--How to make a horse appear as though he was badly
foundered.--Take a fine wire and fasten it tightly around the fetlock,
between the foot and the heel, and smooth the hair over it. In twenty
minutes the horse will show lameness. Do not leave it on over nine
hours. To make a horse lame.--Take a single hair from its tail, put it
through the eye of a needle, then lift the front leg and press the skin
between the outer and middle tendon or cord, and shove the needle
through, cut off the hair each side and let down the foot. The horse
will go lame in twenty minutes. How to make a horse stand by his food
and not take it.--Grease the front teeth and the roof of the mouth with
common beef tallow, and he will not eat until you wash it out. This, in
conjunction with the above, will consummate a complete founder. How to
cure a horse from the crib or sucking wind.--Saw between the upper
teeth to the gums. How to put a young countenance on a horse.--Make a
small incision in the sunken place over the eye, insert the point of a
goose quill and blow it up; close the external wound with a thread, and
it is done. To cover up the heaves.--Drench the horse with one-fourth
pound of common bird-shot, and he will not heave until they pass
through him. To make a horse appear as if he had the glanders.--Melt
four ounces fresh Butter and pour into his ear. To distinguish between
glanders and distemper.--The discharge from the nose in glanders will
sink in water; in distemper it floats. How to make a true pulling horse
balk.--Take Tincture of Cantharides one ounce, and Corrosive Sublimate
one drachm; mix and bathe his shoulder at night. How to serve a horse
that is lame.--Make a small incision about half way from the knee to
the joint on the outside of the leg, and at the back part of the shin
bone you will find a small, white tendon or cord; cut it off and close
the external wound with a stitch, and he will walk off on the hardest
pavement and not limp a particle.

HOW TO TELL THE AGE OF A HORSE.--The safest way of determining the age
of a horse is by the appearance of the teeth, which undergo certain
changes in the course of years.

Eight to fourteen days after birth, the first middle nippers of the set
of milk teeth are cut; four to six weeks afterwards the pair next to
them, and finally, after six or eight months, the last.

All these milk teeth have a well defined body and neck, and a slender
fang, and on their front surface grooves or furrows, which disappear
from the middle nippers at the end of one year, from the next pair in
two years, and from the incisive teeth (cutters) in three years.

At the age of two the nippers become loose and fall out, in their
places appear two permanent teeth, with deep, black cavities, and full,
sharp edges.

At the age of three, the next pair fall out.

At four years old, the corner teeth fall out.

At five years old, the horse has his permanent set of teeth.

The teeth grow in length as the horse advances in years, but at the
same time his teeth are worn away by use about one-twelfth of an inch
every year, so that the black cavities of the center nippers below
disappear in the sixth year, those of the next pair in the seventh
year, and those of the corner teeth in the eighth year. Also the outer
corner of upper and lower jaw just meet at eight years of age.

At nine years old, cups leave the two center nippers above, and each of
the two upper corner teeth has a little sharp protrusion at the extreme
outer corner.

At the age of ten the cups disappear from the adjoining teeth.

At the age of eleven, the cups disappear from the corner teeth above,
and are only indicated by brownish spots.

The oval form becomes broader, and changes, from the twelfth to the
sixteenth year, more and more into a triangular form, and the teeth
lose, finally, with the twentieth year, all regularity. There is
nothing remaining in the teeth that can afterwards clearly show the age
of the horse, or justify the most experienced examiner in giving a
positive opinion.

The tushes, or canine teeth, conical in shape, with a sharp point, and
curved, are cut between the third and fourth year, their points become
more and more rounded until the ninth year, and after that, more and
more dull in the course of years, and lose, finally, all regular shape.
Mares seldom have tusks; if any, they are very faintly indicated.

Frequent reference to the chart for telling the horse's age will
thoroughly acquaint one with this valuable bit of knowledge.

AGE OF SHEEP AND GOATS.--At one year old they have eight front teeth of
uniform size. At two years the two middle ones are supplanted by two
large ones. At three a small tooth appears on each side. At four there
are six large teeth. At five all the front teeth are large, and at six
all begin to get worn.

AGE OF CATTLE.--A cow's horn is supposed to furnish a correct
indication of the age of the animal, but this is not always true. For
ordinary purposes, however, the following will be found approximately
correct: At two years of age a circle of thicker matter begins to form
on the animal's horns, which becomes clearly defined at three years of
age, when another circle begins to form, and an additional circle every
year thereafter. The cow's age then can be determined by adding two to
the number of circles. The rings on a bull's horns do not show
themselves until he is five years old--so in the case of a bull five
must be added to the number of rings. Unless the rings are clear and
distinct these rules will not apply. Besides, dishonest dealers
sometimes file off some of the rings of old cattle.




CHAPTER VI.

HOG DEPARTMENT.

THE DISPOSITION AND CHARACTER OF THE HOG.


In all histories of animals, the hog stands a natural phenomenon, and
alone in relation to his appetite and physical constitution. The hog is
the only kind of animal known to man that can feed on any kind of food.
The stomach of the hog is adapted both to flesh and grass, which is not
the case with any other animal in all the history of animals. Another
peculiarity of his nature is his great ferociousness; perhaps the hog
is more valiant than any animal known. The ferocious and warlike
disposition (perhaps) is one among the reasons of this animal's great
health. There are very few diseases among animals that the hog is
subject to; in fact, it (the Cholera) is the only disease to be greatly
feared among that order of animals; and as this great and valuable
remedy is found and demonstrated beyond the shadow of a doubt, the
farmer may go on raising and feeding his hogs with the full assurance
that his labors will not be lost. He can improve his hogs with
confidence and assurance that health and prosperity will be the rich
reward of his labors.

There is more money made in the culture and growing of hogs than any
animal in the known world; notwithstanding the great loss by Cholera,
there is no one but what will say amen to this fact. Even Boone County
loses $100,000.00 worth of hogs with the Cholera, annually. There are
114 counties in the State of Missouri. Now make the calculation of the
great saving of money by this invaluable discovery for the prevention
and cure of the above disease. We see that if all farmers and traders
in hogs had this book, and carried out its instructions, it would save
$11,400,000.00 for the State of Missouri, which amount would soon
enable Missouri or any other State that observes this book's
instructions to be the richest State in the Union.

There is no farmer but that will become wealthy if he uses economy,
industry and has the Stephen's Remedy for Hog Cholera.


SYMPTOMS OF THE DISEASE, HOG CHOLERA.

1st. Gentleness and sluggishness.

2d. You will see the hog moving around with his nose close to the
ground, with a kind of a forced cough, hair looking dead and kind of a
reddish color; then they quit eating and soon die. These symptoms are
generally of a slow progress, but certain death if Stephen's Cholera
Remedy is not used. These symptoms are set forth both in dry and
purging Hog Cholera. On the first appearance, this disease is more
fatal, from the fact that nature teaches the brute, by unlearned laws,
natural medical aid; but this disease is so powerful and destructive
there is something more necessary than the animal can generally get at.

We now propose to give the cause and the whole cause of the fearful
disease caused Hog Cholera: The system of both man and brute is made up
and composed of a living animalcule so small that it cannot be
discovered with the eye, it being so delicate; but, by the use of the
microscope, it can be readily seen and realized. In good health, with
this animal, this animalcule is the life and spirit of the hog, causing
the functions throughout the whole system to perform nature's intended
designs--regular digestion, and a perfect circulation throughout the
whole animal nature; but when this valuable animal is ranging in
certain localities where he has no resort to certain material, the
system becomes of an impure character, and this delicate animalcule
commanding a rapid growth, feeds upon the nutriment of the body of the
hogs and consequently destroys life without a counteracting remedy of
speedy effect. The liver is the seat of worms or animalcule; it is also
the king or main spring of digestion of both man and beast; when the
hog begins to droop, the worm is rapidly growing; and, without
something to destroy this worm, the hog will die. In certain localities
the hog never has this disease.

Now, this is full and ample evidence that it is the locality in
relation to feed that keeps this fearful disease from the hog. In my
travels I have observed, the localities and health of this valuable
animal depends on what range or food he gets. The Author, having
traveled through different countries and localities, observing at the
same time the health of this animal, gave rise to this great discovery
as a perfect remedy for health. This remedy will both prevent and cure
this disease, when the disease has not too strong a hold, and the liver
and blood fevered too much by the worm. The liver, being the seat of
digestion, must not be disturbed; if its digestion is disturbed,
secretions are located--the system depending on the liver as the clock
or watch depends on its mainspring for time; therefore, knowing the
disease and remedy, end experiencing the facts, the Author is fully
satisfied that his remedy, both as a preventative and cure, is all that
it claims to be, and is undoubtedly the most valuable discovery for the
health of the swine that has ever been known or found out.

The reasons and cause of Hog Cholera having been explained, the Author
now proposes to give the


PREVENTION AND CURE OF HOG CHOLERA.

We are aware of the fact that the talent, ingenuity and skill of man
has been employed in searching out some remedy as a preventative and
cure for this lamentable disease; and there have been some preventions
used that have been valuable in that direction. For instance, the
simple article called ashes is a healthy article for stock, which many
people use, but it never cured one case of Cholera. I have no doubt but
it has been beneficial for the general health of hogs. Of all remedies,
simple ones when they will cure are the best; and this remedy is as
simple and as easily used as it is possible in the use of any remedy.

The effective remedy is simply old lime and sand, with arsenic. Now, I
am aware that the nature of man is to look for some great and unknown
article as a remedy for such a great curse as Hog Cholera; but,
considering the cause of the disease being the animalcule, reader, you
see that it requires something to prevent the excess, or destroy the
increase of this minute animal. Now, we see readily that the Old Lime,
Sand and Arsenic does the work without a doubt, and the hog is healthy
and clear of disease.

Now, reader, you have the remedy; the next thing is how to use it.

In the first place drive your wagon to some sandbar and haul a wagon
load of sand; throw it out where you feed your hogs; to one wagon load
of sand, put one bushel of old slacked lime; throw your feed on that
for your hogs, and about every three months replenish with the same. If
your hogs have the Cholera, separate the sick from the well ones, and
have a trough, and put some of the sand and lime in it, with about
one-half of a thimbleful of arsenic to the hog; then pour some rich
slop on this preparation so that the hogs will eat it; milk would be
preferable if you have it. This preparation once every other day will
soon have your hogs healthy and sound; it destroys the worms, then the
hog is all right. To your healthy hogs give one-half thimbleful of
arsenic in slop to every hog, once per month. This is all the arsenic
you must use; you must not mix the arsenic with the lime and sand, or
the hog may not get it.

After using this remedy, your hogs that are not yet complaining with
Cholera will never take it; you may rely on it. I have tried this
valuable remedy until I am perfectly satisfied; where the Cholera was
killing out the gang every day, it put a stop to it at once; and not
only for myself, but many others under my notice. I have never seen
Cholera bother hogs, where this Stephen's Remedy was used as above
stated. You will ask, what is to be done where pigs have it? In answer
to that, reader, just get a trough and put in the remedy, and pour the
slop to their mother, and the milk will be just as effective to the
pigs as the remedy is with the sow.

This Stephen's Remedy for Hog Cholera, if studied and observed, will be
worth from $100.00 to $1,000.00 to every farmer or hog trader, where
Cholera has ever been; and there is no trouble or expense to have the
benefit of it. This very little book is worth its weight in gold. The
countries where they have no Hog Cholera are rocky and hilly, sandy and
limy, where the hog can get this remedy, and Providence has so taught
the animal that nature dictates to him the remedy. See the dog, when he
is sick, he knows how to take an emetic, vomit, and get well; so it is
with the hog, if he can find this remedy he hardly ever takes Cholera.

In addition to those cures as a prevention of the disease, use
Asafetida, as follows: Cut in small pieces about one ounce; melt it in
water or grease, pour it in rich slop. Feed it to about ten hogs, once
per week in Hog Cholera season, more or less according to number of
hogs. If you will keep up these remedies your swine will keep healthy.
Keep the sick ones and well ones separate. If you have clover keep the
sick ones on it, it is healthy for hogs.


ON TREATMENT.

A little further advice concerning the treatment of hogs when penned
for fattening; hogs should be penned on rolling ground if possible;
they fatten better and consume less corn; they should be salted twice a
week. The way to salt is as follows: If there is no decaying stump in
the pen, haul a rotten log and pour salt on it, and the hogs will use
all the salt and waste none; and the demands of nature will have them
use just enough and no more; this preparation will save 2-1/2 bushels
of corn to every hog, which is $1.00--quite an item where you have a
large pen of hogs. Salt your stock hogs in the same way. When you have
used Stephen's Remedies one year, you would not be without this
knowledge for any small amount, for your hogs will be healthy and
prosperous. If the reader has only one hog per year, it will pay him to
buy this book in relation to the breed of hogs. I don't know that I
could enlighten you on this subject, for the world's attention is
directed to that information, and perhaps, reader, you are as well
posted on that subject as your humble writer. For the western country,
as a hardy and profitable stock of thrifty hogs, the Berkshire mixed or
crossed with the Poland China, would be my choice, but every man has
his own notions concerning the breed of his stock. The main point is to
keep them healthy. Please fathom these instructions, which will cost
you no more hard labor.

Now, reader, the Author has endeavored, in his plain and simple manner,
and in as few words as possible, to explain the cause of Hog Cholera,
its effects, symptoms, and its cure and prevention, which have been
demonstrated by the Author, and not only by him but by divers others
under his instruction.

Before the Author wrote this book, he sold these receipts at from
$10.00 to $50.00; but seeing the great loss of labor and perplexity in
relation to Hog Cholera, and the pressing necessity throughout our
land, alone induced the Author of this work to write a book and set
such a low price on it as to enable every poor widow, that has even a
pet pig, to be in possession of one as a security for its health.


ADVICE TO THE YOUNG MAN.

When the young man leaves his father's home to plan out his course as a
farmer it is very necessary for him to observe two grand points:

1st. To so live, act and speak, as the Apostle Paul says, "void of
offense both to God and man;" and in these words there is a world of
thought. This constitutes our noblest characters in this life and the
life to come.

2nd. In relation to finance, or making and saving of money. Purchase a
good farm, just as much land as you can cultivate well, and no more;
don't have one surplus acre; don't do like some people, raise every
kind of stock and never have anything for market; but when you raise
hogs, raise nothing else for market but hogs; and raise all you can
fatten--that is, all you can raise corn to make fat; and by this rule
to have one or two car loads for sale every fall; you will become
wealthy if you live to be old.

In relation to managing your fields, be sure not to exhaust your soil;
if you are in timber land, sow wheat every other year on your
corn-fields; this will keep your land constantly improving from
ordinary land to rich land. If you live in prairie country where your
wheat will not pay, never sow oats unless you let your hogs take them
before cutting. Always have one clover field for your hogs to run on in
the hard months of summer and fall.

Now, reader, in conclusion, I will give you certificates of the most
prominent men in our vicinity, who tried and experienced the Stephen's
Hog Cholera Remedy, and became convinced of its great value and benefit
to man; and that all men may have confidence and rely on this remedy as
a fact, these men have gone before the Justice of the Peace and sworn
to the facts as they exist. You will see their certificates on the
following pages.

Now, reader, hoping we may both be greatly benefited by this little
work, I bid you God speed. Good-bye.


    HOG CHOLERA.

    This is to certify that I bought one of Dr. J. H. Stephen's Hog
    Cholera books in 1880, when my hogs were dying with that disease. I
    went home and followed the directions of the book. I cured my hogs
    and prevented the rest from having the disease. I here state I have
    followed Dr. Stephen's book's directions for fifteen years, feeding
    and raising hogs, with Cholera around me, and have kept my hogs
    healthy ever since. You need not be afraid of Hog Cholera if you
    have one of the books. The remedy will not cost more than one
    dollar a year for one hundred hogs. No one that has hogs can afford
    to do without it. I was living in Monroe county when I bought the
    book. I am now living in Brunswick, Chariton county, Mo., with Hog
    Cholera all around me. I am not afraid of it. If you doubt this,
    write to me.

    REUBEN YOUNG.

    Witness, B. G. YOUNG.
    October 15, 1895.


    A VALUABLE DISCOVERY FOR EVERYBODY.

    In 1870 my hogs, and many of those of my neighbors, died with Hog
    Cholera; it also broke out again in '71. Dr. Stephens, of
    Centralia, discovered a never failing cure for Hog Cholera. I used
    his remedy, it being no expense or trouble, and I never lost a hog,
    while every one of my neighbors lost a large portion of their hogs
    by disease. My hogs running with them, I am satisfied that I would
    have lost them, had it not been for this great remedy of Stephens,
    that I used. I am satisfied that this remedy will either cure or
    prevent Hog Cholera in any case. I am an old farmer, and would not
    be without this sure remedy for any reasonable sum of money. I
    conscientiously and unhesitatingly advise every farmer to not fail
    to get at least a farm right, and save your hogs from that dreadful
    destructive disease; for the remedy will cure and prevent Hog
    Cholera in any case. I have experienced this fact, and the benefit
    of it is the reason I set so high a value on it. I am a sojourner
    near Cairo, Randolph county, Mo. Was born in Kentucky and emigrated
    to Missouri in an early day.

    THOMAS PATRICK.
    June 24, 1872.


    VALUABLE NOTICE.

    I hereby state a valuable fact. My hogs were dying with Cholera in
    the fall of 1871; I offered the lot for a certain sum of money.
    They were dying every day with Hog Cholera, in Boone County. I
    finally offered them for a mere nominal sum, not being one-fifth
    part of the value of the hogs, had not the Cholera been among them,
    and they dying every day. Dr. J. H. Stephens of Centralia, Mo.,
    said he could cure them, and Mr. R. E. Edwards, of Centralia, Mo.,
    having faith in Dr. Stephens, bought the hogs. To my own knowledge,
    the hogs were cured and fatted up, and made well; and I say for the
    benefit of the public, that I believe that Dr. Stephens can either
    cure or prevent Hog Cholera on any man's farm. I advise all farmers
    to get his great and valuable remedy; it may save you thousands of
    dollars.

    Given under my hand this June 22nd, 1872. This is for no benefit of
    mine, but alone for the benefit of the public. This is a fact.

    E. T. BENNETT,
    Trustee of the M.E. Church, Centralia.

    Subscribed and sworn to before me on this 22nd day of June, 1872.
    J. M. WEST, J.P.


    TO ALL MY FRIENDS, AND THEN TO STRANGERS.

    Centralia, Boone Co., July 3, 1872.

    Dr. Stephens, of this place, I believe, has discovered at last the
    great remedy both to cure and to prevent Hog Cholera. This disease
    has made its ravages among hogs in every State like cholera among
    men, but I hope and believe from experience, that Dr. Stephens has,
    after all the remedies have been tried, discovered the great and
    only reliable remedy, I am satisfied from theory and experience
    that his remedy will both cure and prevent Hog Cholera. I bought a
    lot of hogs, every one of which had the Cholera, on the faith that
    Dr. Stephens would cure them. I bought the hogs of E. T. Bennett,
    living in our town. They were dying every day, and I bought them at
    a mere nominal sum, it not being, perhaps, one-fifth or sixth part
    of the value of said hogs. I called on Dr. Stephens, and he
    instructed me what to do. The remedy cost me but a trifle and I
    cured every one, and my hogs fattened and did well--other hogs
    dying all over town--mine cured sound and remained healthy. I am
    not afraid of Hog Cholera any more; at least I am satisfied I can
    cure it with Dr. Stephens' great remedy. This remedy I never before
    heard of for Hog Cholera; but I have experienced the fact. The
    great value is, it costs you, to prevent 1,000 hogs from having it
    one year with three hours' labor, but $1.00. My advice is, don't
    fail to obtain this valuable remedy at any cost. This is a fact
    that I believe is worth more, and a greater saver of money to the
    United States than any discovery that has been made in the 19th
    century.

    R. F. EDWARDS,
    Sup't. of the M.E. Sunday School, Centralia, Mo.

    Subscribed and sworn to before me, this 3rd day of July, 1872.
    JAMES M. WEST, J.P.




CHAPTER VII.

POULTRY DEPARTMENT.

THE TREATMENT OF FOWLS.


In the rearing of poultry for profit it may safely be stated that dry,
well-aired, warm poultry houses are necessary.

To keep fowls in poorly ventilated, damp, cold quarters is a waste of
time and money, as nearly all diseases of fowls are traceable to
improperly kept poultry houses.

It may also be stated that 99 per cent of the sickness in fowls has its
origin in filth, hence cleanliness is essential in raising good
poultry.

The hen house should be cleaned as often as the barn.


DISEASES OF FOWLS AND HOW TO TREAT THEM.

Apoplexy.--This disease is usually caused by over feeding in confined
quarters. The bird may be noticed moping for some days, but usually the
trouble is not noticed until the bird falls and dies with hardly a
struggle.

Remedy.--Open the largest of the veins under the wing, press on the
vein between the opening and the body until the blood flows freely.

Vertigo.--Like apoplexy, is caused by over feeding and lack of
exercise. The fowl runs in a circle with but partial control of the
limbs.

Remedy.--Hold the head of the bird under a stream of cold water. Give
ten grains of jalap and reduce the amount of feed.

Crop-Bound.--Is caused by irregular feeding. A hungry bird fills his
crop to such a degree that the contents, when moistened, becomes a
dense compact mass.

Remedy.--Puncture the upper part of the crop, loosen the mass by
degrees, with a blunt instrument. If the incision is large, sew up the
slit and feed the bird soft food for ten days.

Diarrhoea.--Remedy.--Five grains powdered chalk, 5 grains turkey
rhubarb, 5 grains cayenne pepper.

Roup.--This is a very contagious disease. The well fowls should
immediately be separated from the sick ones, and the old quarters
thoroughly disinfected. Use the following remedy. One-half ounce balsam
copaiba, one-quarter ounce liquorice powder, one-half drachm piperine.
This is enough for thirty doses. Enclose each dose in a small capsule;
give two or three doses per day. If this does not furnish relief in two
days, kill the fowl and burn or bury it.

The symptoms of this disease are first, a thick opaque and peculiarly
offensive smelling discharge from the nostrils. Froth appears at the
inner corner of the eyes, the lids swell and often the eyes are
entirely closed; the sides of the face become much swollen, and the
bird rapidly declines and dies.

Gapes.--Is caused by parasitic worms in the wind pipe, or from a small
tick-like parasite lodged on the head of the chicken when between two
and four months old. Examine the head of the bird, with a pocket lens,
and if the parasite is found, destroy them with the following: One
ounce mercurial ointment, one-half ounce petroleum (crude), one-half
ounce flower of sulphur. Mix by heating, and apply when just warm.

When gapes is caused by worms in the wind pipe, use spirits of
turpentine, it is applied by dipping the end of a feather in the
turpentine, then inserting it in the bird's mouth at the root of the
tongue; generally one operation is all that is required.

To prevent and cure chicken cholera, renovate the coops thoroughly then
saturate the apartments with kerosene oil. Then grease the chicken
under the wings and wherever the feathers are off, use the formula
mentioned for gapes when caused by parasite (on the head), repeat the
greasing process in two weeks, then once a month until the time of
heavy frost in the fall.

The following is an elegant internal treatment. Dissolve four ounces of
hyposulphate of soda in one gallon of water and add corn meal to make a
heavy dough, and give an ordinary feed of this twice a day for six
days, and then once a week through the summer months. In severe cases
give one teaspoonful of the water (without meal) three or four times a
day until out of danger. This is the best known remedy for chicken
cholera.

Poultry Lousiness.--Appears only in poorly kept fowls. Sprinkle the
fowls and nests with Scotch snuff or flower of sulphur. In addition
thoroughly cleanse the hen house and coop with a solution of four
pounds of potash to a gallon of water or with strong soap suds.




CHAPTER VIII.

CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT.


HOW TO IMITATE GOLD.--Take the following metals and melt them in a
covered crucible; sixteen ounces Virgin Platina, twenty-four ounces
pure copper.

SILVER.--Forty ounces Nickel, twenty ounces Copper, thirty ounces Block
Tin.

ARTIFICIAL GOLD.--Sixteen parts of Virgin Platina and seven parts
Copper and one of Zinc. Put these in a crucible with powdered charcoal,
and melt them together till the whole forms a mass, and are thoroughly
incorporated together. This also makes a gold of extraordinary beauty
and value. It is not possible by any tests that chemists know of to
distinguish it from pure virgin gold. All I ask of men is to use it for
good and lawful purposes, for the knowledge that I here give you will
bring you a rich and permanent reward without using it for unlawful
purposes.

MANHEIM, OR JEWELER'S GOLD.--Three parts of Copper, one part of Zinc,
and one part of Block Tin. If these are pure and melted in a covered
crucible containing charcoal, the resemblance will be so good the best
judges cannot tell it from pure gold without analyzing it.

BEST PINCHBACK GOLD.--Five ounces of pure Copper and one ounce of Zinc.
This makes gold so good in appearance that a great deal of deception by
its use in the way of watches and jewelry has been successfully
practiced for several hundred years back.

SILVER FLUID.--For silvering brass and copper articles of every
description.--Take an ounce of precipitated Silver to half an ounce of
Cyanate of Potash and quarter of an ounce of Hyper Sulphate of Soda.
Put all into a quart of water, add a little whitening and shake before
using. Apply with a soft rag. This knowledge alone is worth one hundred
dollars.

ORIGINAL AND GENUINE SILVER PLATING.--Galvanism Simplified.--Dissolve
one ounce of Nitrate of Silver in Crystal in twelve ounces of soft
water. Then dissolve in the water two ounces of Cyanate of Potash.
Shake the whole together and let it stand until it becomes clear. Have
ready some half-ounce vials, and fill them half full with Paris White
or fine Whiting, then fill up the bottles with the liquid, and it is
ready for use. The Whiting does not increase the coating power; it only
helps to clean the articles and to save the silver fluid by half
filling the bottles. The above quantity of materials will only cost
about $1.50, so that the fluid will only cost about three cents a
bottle.

POWDER FOR CLEANING AND POLISHING TIN, BRITANNIA AND BRASSWARE.--Take
one-half pound ground Pumice Stone and one-quarter pound Red Chalk, mix
them evenly together. This is for tin brass. For silver and fine ware,
take one-half pound Red Chalk, and one-quarter pound Pumice Stone, mix
evenly; use these articles dry with a piece of wash leather. It is one
of the best cleaning powders ever invented, and very valuable.

SILVER POLISH FOR TIN, BRASS AND METALLIC ARTICLES.--Quicksilver,
Tinfoil or Rottenstone, equal parts, all pulverized together. Roll up
in balls, show as you go, and sell for 10 cents a ball.

ANOTHER.--Fine.--Four pounds Whiting, one-quarter ounce Oxalic Acid,
one-half ounce Cream Tartar. Stir all together, then add slowly three
ounces Mercury stirring briskly all the time so it will mix. This is
good, 25 cents a ball.

KANGAROO CEMENT.--Rubber one ounce, pack tightly as possible in a
bottle and cover it with Bi-Sulphate of Carbon. When the rubber is
dissolved you will have the best cement in the world. There is a
fortune in this to an energetic man, as it sells at 25 cents a drachm;
and costs but little to make it. This is the cement used by shoemakers
to put invisible patches on shoes.

HOW TO EAT FIRE.--Anoint your tongue with liquid Storax, and you may
put hot iron or fire coals into your mouth, and without burning you.
This is a very dangerous trick to be done, and those who practice it
ought to use all means they can to prevent danger. We never saw one of
those fire-eaters that had a good complexion.

IMITATION SILVER.--Eleven ounces refined Nickel, two ounces Metallic
Bismuth. Melt the composition three times, and pour them out in ley.
The third time, when melting, add two ounces of pure silver.

IMITATION GOLD.--Four ounces of Platina, three ounces of Silver, one
ounce of Copper.

OROIDE GOLD.--The best article is made by compounding four parts pure
Copper, one and three-fourths part pure Zinc, one-fourth part Magnesia,
one-tenth part Sal-Ammoniac, one-twelfth part Quick Lime, and one part
Cream Tartar. Melt the Copper first, then add as rapidly as possible
the other articles in the order named.

HOW TO INCREASE THE WEIGHT OF GOLD.--Take your bar of Gold and rub it
long and carefully with thin Silver, until the Gold absorbs the
quantity of Silver that you require. Then prepare a strong solution of
Brimstone and Quicklime. Now put the Gold into a vessel with a wide
mouth. Now let them boil until the Gold attains the right color, and
you have it, but do not use this knowledge for an ill purpose.

MASON'S FROZEN PERFUME.--This perfume is in a solid, transparent form,
and by rubbing on the handkerchief it imparts an exquisite perfume; by
carrying it in the pocket it perfumes the entire wearing apparel; by
keeping it in a drawer or box all articles therein obtain the benefits
of this perfume.

Solidified perfumes are superior to all liquid, as they cannot spill or
waste in any manner, but will last for years. Perhaps no article of
luxury had such a sale as this, and as the sales have steadily
increased since its introduction, no other proof of its excellence is
needed.

FREEZING MIXTURE.--Take four parts Nitric Acid, six parts Nitrate
Ammonia, and nine parts phosphate of Soda. Having first prepared a
vessel of galvanized iron four inches wide, twenty-four inches long,
and twelve inches deep, have it a little wider at the top than at the
bottom. Now make another vessel eight inches wide, twenty-eight inches
long and fourteen inches high. Put the small vessel inside the larger
one, fill the small one nearly full of as cool water as you can
procure, put the freezing mixture in the large vessel around the
smaller one, set this in as cool a place as possible. If you will have
a faucet at the lower edge of the larger vessel and first fill the
large vessel with the following it will greatly assist in freezing.
Equal parts of Sal-Ammonia and Nitre dissolved in its own weight of
water. In ten to fifteen minutes pour this off and put in the freezing
mixture.

NOTE.--I have used the above description of a vessel to give you an
idea of how to operate. Any sized vessel made in the same proportion
will work as well.

IMPROVED TROY STARCH ENAMEL.--Melt five pounds of Refined Paraffine Wax
in a tin boiler or pan over a slow fire; use care in melting. When
melted remove the vessel from the fire and add 200 drops of Oil of
Citronelli. Take some new round tin pie pans, and oil them with sweet
oil as you would for pie baking, but do not use lard. Put these pans on
a level table, and pour in enough of the hot wax to make a depth in
each pan equal to about the thickness of one-eighth of an inch. While
hot, glance over the pans to see that they are level. As this is very
essential, please remember it. If the pans are not level, the cakes
will be all thicknesses, which should not be so. Then let them cool,
but not too fast. Watch them closely, and have a tin stamp ready to
stamp the cakes out about the size of an ordinary candy lozenge. This
stamp should be about eight inches long, larger at the top than at the
bottom, so that the cakes can pass up through the stamp as you are
cutting them out of the pans. Lay the cakes in another pan to cool.
Before they become very hard, separate them from each other; if not, it
will be difficult to do so when they become very hard. Do not neglect
this. Have boxes made at any paper box maker's in any large city. They
cost about from one to two cents each; sliding boxes are the best. Have
your labels printed, and commence business at once. Put 24 to 30 cakes
in each box, and retail for 25 cents.

Wholesale for $1.50 per dozen.

_Directions for Use._--To a pint of boiling starch stir in one cake or
tablet. This gives an excellent lustre to linen or muslin, and imparts
a splendid perfume to the clothes, and makes the iron pass very
smoothly over the surface. It requires but half the ordinary labor to
do an ironing. It is admired by every lady. It prevents the iron from
adhering to the surface, and the clothes remain clean and neat much
longer than by any other method.

BRILLIANT SELF-SHINING STOVE POLISH.--This is one of the greatest
inventions of the age. It has been the result of a large amount of
study on the part of the inventor to perfect a polish that would work
easily and satisfactorily in a perfect dry state, thereby obviating the
disagreeable task of mixing and preparing. A good stove polish is an
absolute necessity in every family. It is only a question, then, of
offering the best to make a sale. To prove that this polish is the best
is an easy task. All you have to do is to have a box open and a piece
of rag to begin operations. You now approach the stove and apply the
polish. The result will be so startlingly beautiful that no further
words will be necessary. If the stove is not convenient, anything will
do to experiment with. You can produce on a piece of wood, a scrap of
paper or a potato, a lustre equal to a burnished mirror.

Now make the following points just as strong as you can:

That this polish requires no water or mixing like the various cake or
powder polishes. 2. That it is self-shining and no labor is required.
3. That no dust or smell of any kind rises from its use. And, lastly,
that it has no equal in the world.

RECIPE.--Take Plumbago (Black Lead) finely pulverized, and put in two
ounce wood boxes, nicely labeled, and sell for ten or fifteen cents a
box. Wholesale to stores and agents at $6.00 a hundred. Costs less than
three cents a box to manufacture.

_Directions for Use._--Use a damp woolen rag, dip in the box, and apply
to the stove. Then polish with a dry cloth, and a most beautiful polish
will appear.

TO FROST WINDOW PANES.--Take Epsom Salts and dissolve in beer. Apply
with a brush and you have the finest window frosting known.

THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND, or ELECTRIC POWDER.--This is one of the most
salable articles of the day and staple as flour--something that every
housekeeper will buy. It is used for gold and silver plated ware,
German silver, brass, copper, glass, tin, steel, or any material where
a brilliant lustre is required. Is put up in two ounce wood boxes,
costs three cents to manufacture, sells at retail for 25 cents, to
agents and stores for $12.00 per 100 boxes.

RECIPE.--To four pounds best quality Whiting, add one-half pound Cream
Tartar and three ounces Calcined Magnesia; mix thoroughly together, box
and label.

_Directions._--Use the polish dry with a piece of chamois skin or
Canton flannel, previously moistened with water or alcohol, and finish
with the polish dry. A few moments' rubbing will develop a surprising
lustre, different from the polish produced by any other substance.

RECIPE.--Follow the same directions as in "Starch Enamel," and perfume
as follows: Take two ounces Oil Lemon Grass and one-half ounce Oil of
Cloves, and one-fourth ounce Oil of Lavender flowers; mix them well
together. For this amount of perfume you require about four quarts of
the liquid paraffine. Pour the oils into the melted paraffine while
warm, stirring it well while pouring. Stamp into square cakes and put
into neatly printed envelopes. Sell for ten cents a cake, cost two
cents. Agents can sell 100 cakes a day.

THE LIGHTNING INK ERASER.--The great Lightning Ink Eraser may be used
instead of a knife or scraper for erasing in order to rectify a mistake
or clean off a blot, without injury to the paper, leaving the paper as
clean and good to write upon as it was before the blot or mistake was
made, and without injury to the printer's ink upon any printed form or
ruling upon any first-class paper. Take of Chloride of Lime one pound,
thoroughly pulverized, and four quarts of Soft Water. The above must be
thoroughly shaken when first put together. It is required to stand
twenty-four hours to dissolve the Chloride of Lime. Then strain through
a cotton cloth, after which add a teaspoonful of Acetic Acid (No. 8
commercial) to every ounce of Chloride of Lime Water. The eraser is
used by reversing the penholder in the hand, dipping the end in the
fluid, and applying it, without rubbing, to the blot to be erased. When
the ink has disappeared, absorb the fluid into a blotter, and the paper
is immediately ready to write upon. Put up in common ink bottles and
retail for 25 cents each.

THE MAGIC ANNIHILATOR.--To make one gross eight-ounce bottles--aqua
ammonia one gallon, soft water eight gallons, best white soap four
pounds, saltpetre eight ounces. Shave the soap fine, add the water,
boil until the soap is dissolved, let it get cold, then add the
saltpetre, stirring until dissolved. Now strain, let the suds settle,
skim off the dry suds, add the ammonia, bottle and cork at once. Cost
about $7.25 per gross; sells for $72.00. It will do everything claimed
for it and more, too. It is no mixture of soap suds as some may
suppose, but a pure scientific, chemical preparation. If you wish to
make a small quantity for trial, take aqua ammonia two ounces, soft
water one quart, saltpetre one teaspoonful. Shave the soap fine, mix
all, shake well, and let settle a day or two to dissolve the soap.

_What It Will Do._--It will remove all kinds of grease and oil spots
from every variety of wearing apparel, such as coats, pants, vests,
dress goods, carpets, etc., without injury to the finest silks or
laces. It will shampoo like a charm, raising the lather in proportion
to the amount of dandruff and grease in the hair. A cloth wet with it
will remove all grease from door-knobs, window sills, etc., handled by
kitchen domestics in their daily routine of kitchen work. It will
remove paint from a board, I care not how hard or dry it is, if oil is
used in the paint, yet it will not injure the finest textures. Its
chemical action is such that it turns any oil or grease into soap,
which is easily washed out with clear cold water. For cleaning silver,
brass and copper ware it can't be beat. It is certain death to bed
bugs, for they will never stop after they have encountered the Magic
Annihilator.

_Directions for Use._--For grease spots, pour upon the article to be
cleaned a sufficient quantity of the Magic Annihilator rubbing well
with a clean sponge, and applying to both sides of the article you are
cleaning. Upon carpets and coarse goods, where the grease is hard and
dry, use a stiff brush and wash out with clear cold water. Apply again
if necessary. One application is all that is needed for any fresh
grease spots, but for old or dried a second may be required. For
shampooing take a small quantity of the Magic Annihilator with an equal
quantity of water, apply to the hair with a stiff brush, brushing into
the pores of the scalp, and wash out with clear water. You will be
surprised at the silk gloss of your hair. For cleaning silver ware,
etc., buy five cents' worth of whitening, mix a small quantity with the
magic annihilator, and apply with a rag, rubbing briskly. For killing
bed bugs, apply to the places they frequent, and they will leave in
short order. You will find it useful in many other ways. (See price
list of labels.)




CHAPTER IX.

MISCELLANEOUS DEPARTMENT.


FIRE-PROOF PAINT.--Take a sufficient quantity of Water for use; add as
much Potash as can be dissolved therein. When the water will dissolve
no more Potash, stir into the solution first, a quantity of flour paste
of consistency of painter's size; second a sufficiency of pure clay to
render it of the consistency of cream. Apply with a painter's brush.

N.B.--The above will admit of any coloring you please.

WATER-PROOF AND FIRE-PROOF CEMENT FOR ROOFS OF HOUSES.--Slack Stone
Lime in a large tub or barrel with boiling water, covering the tub or
barrel to keep in the steam. When thus slacked pass six quarts through
a fine sieve. It will then be in a state of fine flour. To this add one
quart Rock Salt and one gallon of Water. Boil the mixture and skim it
clean. To every five gallons of this skimmed mixture add one pound of
Alum and one-half pound Copperas; by slow degrees add three-fourths
pound Potash and four quarts fine Sand or Wood Ashes sifted. Both of
the above will admit of any coloring you please. It looks better than
paint and is as durable as slate.

PAINT FOR ROUGH WOODWORK.--Six pounds melted Pitch, one pound Linseed
Oil, and one pound Yellow Ochre.

SUPERIOR PAINT FOR BRICK HOUSES--To Lime Whitewash add, for a fastener,
Sulphate of Zinc, and shade with any color you choose, as Yellow Ochre,
Venetian Red, etc. It outlasts oil paint.

ART OF ETCHING ON COPPER.--Having obtained a piece of fine Copper,
which will be well polished, make a mixture of Beeswax and a small
quantity of Resin; melt these together, and when thoroughly
incorporated by stirring, take a camel's hair brush and cover the
plate, which must previously be warmed by the fire, with an even
coating of the mixture.

When the mixture becomes hardened upon the plate, sketch the desired
object upon the surface, then take an etching point, a large needle
fixed in a handle will do, and cut through the wax to the surface of
the copper, taking care to make the lines as distinct as possible.

This being done, raise a border of wax all around the plate, then pour
strong Nitric Acid on the plate to the depth of an inch. The Acid will
eat away the copper in those places which have been bared by the
etching point. From time to time pour off the acid and wash the plate
to see how the work is going on. Stop up with wax those places that
appear to be etched deep enough, pour Acid upon the others, and let it
remain until the process is completed. This done, melt off the wax
clean the plate, and the etching is ready for the press. This is an
employment from which a good remuneration may be derived.

MAHOGANY FURNITURE VARNISH.--Take of Proof Alcohol one quart, cut
therein all the Gum Shellac it will take, add two ounces of Venice
Turpentine, and coloring to suit. This makes a beautiful polish and
will wear for years.

WATER-PROOF FOR LEATHER.--Take Linseed Oil one pint, Yellow Wax and
White Turpentine each two ounces, Burgundy Pitch two ounces, melt and
color with Lamp Black.

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MAHOGANY.--Mix Spirits of Salts six parts, Salt
of Lemons one part, then drop a little on the stains, and rub them till
they disappear.

CEMENTS.--Cements of various kinds should be kept for occasional use.
Flour paste answers very well for slight purposes; if required stronger
than usual, boil a little Glue or put some powdered Resin in it. White
of Egg, or a solution of Glue and a strong Gum Water are good cements.
A paste made of Linseed Meal dries very hard and adheres firmly. A soft
cement is made of Yellow Wax, melted with its weight of Turpentine, and
a little Venetian Red to give it color. This when cool is as hard as
soap, and is very useful to stop up cracks, and is better to cover the
corks of bottles than sealing wax or hard cement.

The best cement for broken china or glass is that sold under the name
of Diamond cement; it is colorless and resists moisture. This is made
by soaking Isinglass in water until it is soft, and then dissolving it
in Proof Spirits; add to this a little Gum Ammoniac or Galbonam or
Mastic, both dissolved in as little Alcohol as possible. When the
cement is to be used, it must be gently liquified by placing the vial
containing it in boiling water. The vial must be well closed with a
good cork, not glass stopper, as they become forced. It is applied to
the broken edges by a camel's hair pencil.

When objects are not to be exposed to the moisture, the White of an Egg
alone is mixed with finely powdered Quicklime, will answer very well;
Shellac dissolved in water is better.

A very strong cement for all earthenware is made by boiling slices of
Skim-Milk Cheese and Water into a paste, then grinding the Quicklime in
a marble mortar, or on a slab with a mallet.

TO MEND IRON.--Mix finely some sifted Lime with the White of an Egg
till a thin sort of paste is formed, then add some Iron Filings. Apply
this to the fracture and the vessel will be found nearly as sound as
ever.

PATENT GLUE.--One pound fine Isinglass and one pint Rain Water, boil
and prepare an ordinary glue, then add slowly, stirring continually,
two ounces Nitric Acid, bottle and it is fit for use. It will
permanently adhere to wood, leather, paper and everything else. It
sells for twenty-five cents an ounce; by keeping it secret Spaulding
has made a fortune out of it; read his advertisement. Truly it is a
young fortune to a good peddler.

PATENT BLACKING.--One gallon Alcohol, one ounce Sulphuric Acid, one and
one-half pounds Gum Shellac; let stand 48 hours, then add one-fourth
pound of Ivory Black. Let stand 24 hours, then carefully pour off the
top. This is ready for use and is water-proof. This recipe cost $50; is
for the polish of all leather. It sells in four ounce bottles at $1 per
bottle.

STENCIL CUTTING.--Take a thin copper or brass plate, lay flat on the
side, then take a sharp edged steel, write thereon the same as common
writing, but press sufficiently hard to cut through the plate. To mark,
lay the plate thus cut upon the cloth, and apply ink by means of a
brush to the back of the plate, and it will wet the cloth where the cut
is made by the writing. A little practice will enable a person to cut
beautifully. There is money to be made at this. Some make $10 a day.

GLUE FOR CEMENTING PAPER AND LEATHER.--Take Isinglass and Parchment
each one ounce, Sugar Candy and Gum Tragacanth each two drachms, add to
them one ounce Water, and boil the whole together till the mixture
appears (when cold) of the consistency of Glue; then pour it into any
form you please. If this glue be wet with the tongue, and rubbed on the
edge of paper, silk or leather that are to be cemented, they will, on
being laid together, pressed tightly and suffered to dry, be as firmly
united as other parts of the substance. It is fine to seal letters.

NEW ENGLAND SOAP.--Take three pounds of hard, white soap, shave it up
fine, dissolve it in ten quarts boiling water; add one ounce Salts of
Tartar, three ounces Borax; then take the same from the fire and set it
away to cool; as soon as it becomes cool enough to bear your hand in,
add one ounce liquid Ammonia; stir each article as you put it in.

TO HARDEN WOOD.--One often desires to impart the hardness of Oak to
shutters, doors, etc., made of soft wood. This is easily done by giving
them a first coating of common gray paint, and then sifting some very
fine sand over it. When dry a coat of paint is laid on, after which the
surface becomes so hard that it will resist the action of sun and rain,
for many years without undergoing the slightest alteration.

WASHING FLUID.--Two pounds crude Potash, one ounce Sal Ammoniac,
one-half ounce Saltpetre, two gallons Rain Water, one pint for eight
gallons of Water, and one pound Soap. Put the clothes to soak over
night and rinse in the morning. This has been sold for $5 for some
time.

LIQUID CEMENT.--Cut Gum Shellac in 70 per cent Alcohol, put it in
vials, and it is ready for use. Apply it to the edge of the broken dish
with a feather, and hold it in a spirit lamp as long as the cement will
simmer, then join together evenly, and when cold the dish will break in
another place first, and is as strong as new.

TO CLEAN WINE DECANTERS.--Use a little Pearl Ash or Soda, and some
Cinders and Water. Rinse them out with water.

TO CLEAN CHINA.--Use a little of Fuller's Earth and Soda or Pearl Ash
with Water.

BURNING FLUID.--Four quarts Alcohol, one pint Spirits of Turpentine;
mix well. It is the best in use.

FLY POISON.--Sugar half ounce, half ounce thoroughly ground Black
Pepper. Make it to thin paste and place it on paper where the flies do
congregate.

FURNITURE POLISH.--Best Vinegar one pint, Turpentine half pint. Mix and
apply with a brush.

PATENT SOAP.--Half pint Turpentine, three pints Sal Soda, three pounds
grease, two pounds Resin Soap, forty gallons Water. Boil one hour and
it is fit for use. This is a great soap. Keep it to yourself.

RAT, MOUSE AND ROACH EXTERMINATOR.--One pint Alcohol, one-fourth ounce
Cayenne Pepper, one ounce powdered Anise Seed, one-fourth ounce
Saltpetre, one-fourth ounce White Lead, four ounces Essence of Hops.
Steam this slowly for an hour, then add thirty drops Quassia. Let stand
48 hours, and add one gallon of Water; bottle for use. To use, saturate
bread, meat, etc., and lay it in their frequented places. In two nights
not one will be seen. It sells for $1.00 per 4-ounce bottle; or drive
them away yourself for $5 a farm or $2 a house.

TO CLEAN BRITIANNIA WARE.--Britiannia ware should be washed with a
woolen cloth and sweet oil, then washed in water and suds, and rubbed
with soft leather and whiting. Thus treated it will retain its beauty
to the last.

THE ART OF PAINTING GLASS.--The only difference between ordinary
painting and painting on glass is, that in the latter all transparent
colors are used instead of opaque ones and the color is ground up with
Turpentine and Varnish instead of Oil. In painting upon glass it is
necessary to place the picture between the artist and the light to
enable him to see the effect, the light having the property of casting
a yellowish tinge upon all colors so exposed. To persons having a
knowledge of coloring, this art is easily learned, and affords a
handsome remuneration.

OIL PASTE FOR BLACKING BOOTS AND SHOES.--Two ounces Oil of Vitriol,
four ounces Tanner's Oil, mix and let stand forty-eight hours, then add
five ounces Molasses and one pound Ivory Black; stir well and then put
up for sale. This has been the fortune of Mason, of Philadelphia.

CRYSTAL CEMENT.--Dissolve one pound of White Glue in one and one-half
pints of hot water, then cut one ounce Gum Shellac in one and one-half
pints Alcohol, and mix with the glue, then stir in two ounces of dry
White Lead, and add one ounce of Turpentine. This makes the best cement
of anything that has been discovered. It will stand heat, and articles
will break in another place sooner than where put together. This is a
fortune to an enterprising man.

FOR CLEANING MARBLE.--Muriatic Acid two lbs., Acetic Acid one-half lb.,
Verdigris one-quarter ounce. Mix and apply with a brush. Wash the stone
after with sponge and water. After the stone is clean rub it smooth
with Pumice Stone, keeping it wet with water. After some little
practice you can clean an old, dirty tombstone so that a marble cutter
cannot detect it from being new work.

A NEW ART, OR THE LIGHTNING INTEREST RULES.--Reduce the whole time to
months and set it down in figures; divide the number of days by three,
and set the quotient down to the right of the months, and multiply that
by the quotient of the money divided by two; the answer will be the
interest at six per cent. To change to any other rate, multiply the
interest by it and divide by six. $160--one year, seven months,
twenty-one days, at six per cent. $160--2--$80 x 197--$15.76 at 6.

Parties in New York are teaching this rule at $5 a scholar.

BOTTLE WAX.--_Black._--Black Resin six and one-half pounds, Beeswax
one-half pound, finely powdered Ivory Black one and one-half pounds.
Melt together. _Red._--As the last, but substitute Venetian Red or
Red Lead for the Ivory Black.

LIQUID MUCILAGE.--Fine clean Glue one pound, Gum Arabic ten ounces,
Water one quart. Melt by heat in glue kettle or water bath; when
entirely melted, add slowly ten ounces strong Nitric Acid, set off to
cool. Then bottle, adding a couple of cloves to each bottle.

BLUING FOR CLOTHES.--Take one ounce of soft Prussian Blue, powder it
and put in a bottle with a quart of clear Rainwater, and add one-fourth
ounce of Oxalic Acid. A teaspoonful is sufficient for a large washing.

SWAIN'S VERMIFUGE.--Wormseed two ounces, Valerian, Rhubarb, Pink-Root,
White Agaric, of each one and one-fourth ounces. Boil in sufficient
water to yield three quarts of decoction and add to it 30 drops of Oil
of Tansy and 45 drops of Oil of Cloves; dissolve in a quart of
rectified spirits. Dose one tablespoonful at night.

TO MAKE PADS.--A piece of fine Woolen Cloth saturated with ink, makes
an excellent pad, but it is customary to place sheet cotton underneath
and muslin over the cloth, bringing the muslin down around the edges
and fasten by tacking on a binding of Tin or Morocco Leather strips.

TO MAKE WAX FLOWERS.--The following articles will be required to
commence wax work: two pounds White Wax, one-fourth pound Hair Wire,
one bottle Carmine, one Ultramarine Blue, one bottle Chrome Yellow, two
bottles Chrome Green, No. 1, two bottles Chrome Green No. 2, one bottle
each of Rose Pink, Royal Purple, Scarlet Powder and Balsam Fir, two
dozen sheets White Wax. This will do to begin with. Now have a clean
tin dish, and pour therein a quart or two of water; then put in about
one pound of the White Wax, and let it boil. When cool enough, so the
bubbles will not form on top, it is ready to sheet, which is done as
follows: Take half a window pane, 7x9, and after having washed it clean
dip into a dish containing weak soap-suds; then dip into the Wax, and
draw out steadily, and plunge it into the suds, when the sheet will
readily come off. Lay it on a cloth or clean paper to dry. Proceed in
like manner until you have enough of the white; then add enough of the
green powder to make a bright color, and heat and stir thoroughly until
the color is evenly distributed, then proceed as for sheeting white
wax. The other colors are rubbed into the leaves after they are cut
out, rubbing light or heavy according to shade.

For patterns you can use any natural leaf, forming the creases in wax
with thumb nail or needle. To put the flowers together, or the leaves
on the stem, hold in the hand until warm enough to stick. If the
sheeted wax is to be used in summer, put in a little Balsam of Fir to
make it hard. If for winter, none will be required.

You can make many flowers without a teacher, but one to assist in the
commencement would be a great help, though the most particular thing
about it is to get the wax sheeted. The materials I have suggested can
be procured at any drug store, and will cost from $3.00 to $4.50.

PORTABLE LEMONADE.--Tartaric Acid one ounce, White Sugar two pounds,
Essense of Lemon one-fourth ounce; powder and keep dry for use. One
dessert spoonful will make a glass of lemonade.

TO NEUTRALIZE WHISKY TO MAKE VARIOUS LIQUORS.--To forty gallons of
Whisky add one and one-half pounds unslacked Lime, three-fourths of a
pound of Alum, and one-half pint Spirits of Nitre. Stand twenty-four
hours and draw it off.

MADEIRA WINE.--To four gallons prepared Cider, add one-fourth pound
Tartaric Acid, four gallons of Spirits, three pounds Loaf Sugar. Let
stand ten days, draw it off carefully. Fine it down, and again rack it
in another cask.

SHERRY WINE.--To forty gallons prepared Cider add two gallons Spirits,
three pounds of Raisins, six gallons good Sherry and one-half ounce Oil
of Bitter Almonds, dissolved in Alcohol. Let it stand ten days, draw it
off carefully. Fine it down, and again rack it in another cask.

ARTIFICIAL HONEY.--Take eight pounds of White Sugar, add two quarts of
Water, boil four minutes, then add one pound of Bee's Honey. Strain
while hot. Flavor with a drop of Oil of Peppermint and a drop of the
Oil of Rose.

PORT WINE.--To forty gallons prepared Cider add six gallons good Port
Wine, ten quarts Wild Grapes, clusters, one-half pound bruised Rhatany
Root, three ounces Tincture of Kino, three pounds Loaf Sugar, two
gallons Spirits. Let this stand ten days. Color, if too light with
Tincture of Rhatany, then rack it off and fine it. This should be
repeated until the color is perfect and the liquid clear.

CLEANING COMPOUND.--Mix one ounce of Borax and one ounce Gum Camphor
with one quart of boiling water. When cool add one pint of Alcohol,
bottle and cork tightly. When wanted for use, shake well and sponge the
garments to be cleaned. This is an excellent mixture for cleaning
soiled black cashmere and woolen dresses, coat collars and black felt
hats.

SHAVING SOAP.--Good white Soap in fine shavings, three pounds; Balm
Soap, one pound; Soft Water, three-fourths of a pound; Soda, one ounce.
Melt carefully over a slow fire in an earthen vessel; then add Oil of
Lavender sixty drops, Oil of Lemon forty drops; mix well and make into
forms.

LEATHER CEMENT.--Take Gutta Percha cut in Chloroform to right
consistency for use. Equal to Cook's best for putting patches on
leather, cloth shoes or boots. Well worth $100.

TO FASTEN PAPER TO TIN.--Take good clear pale yellow Glue, break it
into rather small pieces, and let it soak a few hours in cold water.
Pour off the supernatant water, place the glue thus softened in a
wide-mouthed bottle; add sufficient Glacial Acid to cover the Glue, and
facilitate the solution by standing the bottle in warm water. This
Acetic will stick almost anything.

HUNTERS' AND TRAPPER'S SECRET.--Take equal parts of Oil of Rhodium,
Anise Oil, Sweet Oil and Honey, and mix well. Put a few drops on any
kind of bait. For musk-rats use sweet apples or vegetables for bait.
For mink use a chicken's head or a piece of fresh meat.

FIRE KINDLERS--To make very nice fire kindlers take Resin, any
quantity, and melt it, putting in for each pound being used two or
three ounces or Tallow, and when all is hot stir in Pine Sawdust to
make very thick, and while very hot spread it out about one inch thick,
upon boards which have fine Sawdust sprinkled upon them to prevent it
from sticking. When cold break up into lumps about an inch square. But
if for sale take a thin board and press upon it while yet warm, to lay
it off into inch squares. This makes it break regularly, if you press
the crease sufficiently deep. Grease the marked board to prevent it
sticking.

RED SEALING WAX.--Purchase four pounds Shellac, one and one-half pounds
Veneer Turpentine, three pounds finest Cinnabar, and four ounces
Venetian; mix the whole well together and melt over a very slow fire.
Pour it on a thick, smooth glass, or any other flat smooth surface, and
make it into three, six or ten sticks.

FURNITURE POLISH.--Equal parts Sweet Oil and Vinegar and a pint of Gum
Arabic finely powdered. Shake the bottle and apply with a rag. It will
make furniture look as good as new.

BLACK SEALING WAX.--Purchase the best Black Resin three pounds, Beeswax
one-half pound, and finely powdered Ivory Black one pound. Melt the
whole together over a slow fire, and make it into sticks.

CEMENT FOR LEATHER.--Virgin India Rubber dissolved in Bisulphide of
Carbon. Add Bisulphide until of proper consistency to apply. After
applying hold a moderately warm iron over the patch.

AROMATIC SCHIEDAM SCHNAPPS, to imitate.--To twenty-five gallons good
common Gin, five over proof, add fifteen pints strained Honey, two
gallons clear Water, five pints White Sugar Syrup, five pints Spirits
of Nutmeg, mixed with Nitric Ether, five pints Orange Flower Water,
seven quarts pure Water, one ounce Acetic Ether, eight drops Oil of
Wintergreen dissolved with the Acetic Ether. Mix all the ingredients
well; if necessary, fine with Alum and Salt of Tartar.

CHAMPAGNE CIDER.--Good Cider, pale, one hogshead, Spirits three
gallons, Honey or Sugar twenty pounds. Mix and let them stand for two
weeks; then fine with skimmed Milk one-half gallon. This will be very
pale, and a similar article, when bottled in champagne bottles and
silvered and labeled, has often been sold to the ignorant for
champagne.

CIDER WITHOUT APPLES.--To one gallon of cold Water add dark brown Sugar
one pound, Tartaric Acid one-half ounce, Yeast three tablespoonfuls.
Shake well together.

ST. CROIX RUM.--To forty gallons p. or n. Spirits add two gallons St.
Croix Rum, two ounces Acetic Acid, one and one-half ounces Butyric
Acid, three pounds Loaf Sugar.

IRISH OR SCOTCH WHISKY.--To forty gallons proof Spirits add sixty drops
Creosote dissolved in one quart of Alcohol, two ounces Acetic Acid, one
pound Loaf Sugar. Stand forty-eight hours.

FRENCH BRANDY.--Pure Spirits one gallon, best French Brandy for any
kind you wish to imitate, one quart, Loaf Sugar two ounces, Sweet
Spirits Nitre one-half ounce, a few drops of Tincture of Catechu or Oak
Bark, to roughen the taste, if desired, and color to suit.

ENGLISH GIN.--Plain Malt Spirits one hundred gallons, Spirits of
Turpentine one pint, Bay Salt seven pounds. Mix and distill. The
difference in the flavor of Gin is produced by varying the proportion
of Turpentine, and by occasionally adding a small quantity of Juniper
Berries.

FRENCH FURNITURE POLISH.--Alcohol 98 per cent one pint, Gum Copal and
Shellac of each one ounce, Dragon's Blood. Mix and dissolve by setting
in a warm place.

TO TAKE FAC-SIMILES OF SIGNATURES.--Write your name on a piece of
paper, and while the ink is wet sprinkle over it some finely powdered
Gum Arabic, then make a rim around it and pour on it some Fusible Alloy
in a liquid state. Impressions may be taken from the plates formed in
this way by means of printing ink and a copperplate press.

CHEMICAL COMPOUND.--Aqua Ammonia two ounces, soft Water one quart,
Saltpetre one teaspoonful, Shaving Soap in shavings one ounce. Mix all
together. Dissolve the Soap well, and any grease or dirt that cannot be
removed with this preparation nothing else need be tried for it.

DISTILLING WHISKY FROM MOLASSES.--Take five gallons of Molasses, mix
thoroughly with twenty-five gallons soft Water in a barrel. Stir in
one-half gallon Brewer's Yeast; let it set from five to seven days in a
warm place, say 70 degrees. During this time fermentation will proceed,
which is known by a bubbling sensation. When this subsides it is ready
for distilling. To distill use a common washing boiler, with the top
well closed and a hole in the same, or thimble soldered on for the
steam to pass through a pipe. Connect a tin pipe, say two inches in
diameter and ten feet long with a short elbow end to the boiler; let
the other end incline downward. Fill the boiler one-half full of the
fermented wort, boil slowly and regularly until there is no taste of
spirits left. The atmosphere condenses the steam. In this case if it
should not entirely condense it lengthen or enlarge the pipe. The
liquid thus obtained is low wines, and to use the same process of
running proof spirits can be obtained. To continue this daily any given
amount of molasses, etc., can be mixed, say one barrel each day. Five
quarts can be obtained from four quarts of common molasses.

Intoxicating liquors of any and all kinds are the father of crime, the
mother of abomination, the devil's best friend, and God's worst enemy.

INK POWDER.--Powdered Nut Galls four ounces, Copperas three ounces,
Logwood one ounce, Gum Arabic one-half ounce. Sufficient for one quart
of water.

FLORIDA WATER.--Dissolve in one-half gallon of 90 per cent Alcohol, one
ounce each of Oil of Lavender, Oil of Bergamot and Oil of Lemon and Oil
of Cloves and Cinnamon, one drachm each; add one gallon of Water and
filter.

MOLASSES CANDY.--Boil Molasses over a moderately hot fire, stirring
constantly. When you think it is done drop a little on a plate, and if
sufficiently boiled it will be hard. Add a small quantity of Vinegar to
render it brittle and any flavoring ingredient you prefer. Pour in
buttered tin pans. If nuts are to be added strew them in the pans
before pouring out the candy.

TO MAKE EGGS OF PHARAOH'S SERPENTS.--Take Mercury and dissolve it in
moderately diluted Nitric Acid by means of heat, take care, however,
that there be always an excess of Metallic Mercury remaining. Decant
the solution and pour it in a solution of Sulphocyanide of Ammonia or
Potassium, which may be bought at a good drug store or of a dealer in
chemicals. Equal weights of both will answer. A precipitate will fall
to the bottom of the beaker or jar, which is to be collected on a
filter, and washed two or three times with water, when it is put in a
warm place to dry. Take for every pound of this material one ounce of
Gum Tragacanth, which has been soaked in hot water. When the gum is
completely softened, it is to be transferred to a mortar, and then
pulverized and dried precipitate gradually mixed with it, by means of a
little water, so as to present a somewhat dried pill mass, from which,
by hand, pellets of the desired size are formed, put on a piece of
glass, and dried again. They are then ready for use.

BOOT AND SHOE BLACKING.--Ivory Black one pound, Molasses two ounces,
Olive Oil four ounces, Oil of Vitriol four ounces, Alcohol eight
ounces, Rye Flour one pound. Mix them together in a kettle.

ANGLER'S SECRET NO. 1.--Mix the juice of Lovage or Smellage, or
spoiled cheese, with any kind of bait.

No. 2.--Mullen Seed pulverized and mixed with dough, and sprinkled on
the surface of still water, intoxicates fish and makes them turn up on
the top of the water.

BRISTOL'S TOOTH POWDER.--Prepared Chalk one pound, Castile Soap
one-half pound, powdered Yellow Bark two ounces, powdered Gum Myrrh two
ounces, powdered Loaf Sugar two ounces, powdered Orris two ounces; mix
intimately, after having first pulverized the Castile Soap.

ROYAL WASHING POWDER.--Mix any quantity of Soda Ash with an equal
portion of Carbonate of Soda--ordinary Soda--crushed into coarse
grains. Have a thin solution of Glue, or decoction of Linseed Oil
ready, into which pour the Soda until quite thick. Spread it out on
boards in a warm apartment to dry. As soon as dry, shake up well, so
that it will pack easily into nice square packages. Label neatly. Pound
packages cost seven cents; retails for thirty-five cents.

EGYPTIAN CEMENT.--For mending china, glass or woodenware: Take one
pound of the best White Glue, one-half pound dry White Lead, one quart
soft Water, one-half pint Alcohol. Put the three first articles in a
dish, and that dish in a pot of boiling water. Let it boil until
dissolved, then add the Alcohol, and boil again until mixed. A little
Camphor should be added, to preserve it and disguise its composition.
Put in small bottles; 25 cents each.

"HANDY" WATER PENS.--Take best quality violet Analine, reduce to a
thick paste with water; then add Mucilage and mix thoroughly. Apply the
paste thus made to the pen, and let it dry twelve hours Any steel pen
may be prepared in this way. We always keep in stock the best violet
Analine, also a large stock of pens.

_Directions for Using._--Start action by dipping into water up to
filling. If pen should be greasy, wet point with the tongue. To make
the ink flow thick, dip to the filling; if wanted thin or pale, dip
only to the eye of the pen after starting. After using throw the water
off, but don't wipe it, for it will dry in a minute.

ARTIFICIAL OYSTERS.--Grate green corn in a dish; to one pint of this
add one egg well beaten, small teacup of flour, half a cup of butter,
salt and pepper; mix well together and fry them brown.

PASTE THAT WILL NOT SOUR.--Dissolve one-half of an ounce of Alum in a
pint of boiling water, add an equal weight of Flour, made smooth in a
little cold water, and a few drops of Oil of Cloves, and let the whole
come to a boil. Put it into glass or ointment jars. It will keep for
months.

ESSENCES are made with one ounce of any given oil added to one pint of
Alcohol. Peppermint is colored with Tincture Turmeric, Cinnamon with
Tincture Red Saunders, Wintergreen with Tincture Kino.

TINCTURES are made with one ounce of Gum, Root, or Bark, etc., dried,
to each pint of proof spirits and let it stand one week and filter.

OLEOMARGARINE MANUFACTURE.--The process by which suet is converted into
the substance called oleamargarine is as follows: The crude suet after
first being washed in cold water is "rendered," melted, and then drawn
off into movable tanks. The hard substance is subjected to a hydraulic
pressure of 350 tons, and the oil extracted. The butter is made from
the oil thus obtained, while the hard substance remaining is disposed
of as stearine. The oil, being carried off into churns, is mixed with
milk and from three to five per cent of dairy butter. It is then drawn
off in a consistent form, and cooled with broken ice. The latter is
soon removed, and the butter worked up with a small portion of salt.
When this is done the article is ready for packing and consumption.

SILVER PLATING FLUID.--Take one ounce Precipitate Silver to one-half
ounce Cyanite of Potash and one-fourth ounce of Hyposulphate of Soda.
Put all in a quart of water, add a little Whiting, and shake before
using. Apply with a soft rag. Put up in ounce bottles, and retail for
25 cents. The secret is worth $100 to an agent to sell to families.

MUCILAGE FOR LABELS.--Dextrine two ounces, Glycerine one drachm,
Alcohol one ounce, water six ounces.

FIG CANDY.--Take one pound of Sugar and one pint of Water, set over a
slow fire. When done add a few drops of Vinegar and a lump of Butter,
and pour into a pan in which Figs are laid.

RAISIN CANDY.--Can be made in the same manner, substituting stoned
raisins for the Figs. Common Molasses Candy is very nice with any kind
of nuts added.

PEPPERMINT, ROSE, or HOARHOUND CANDY.--These may be made as Lemon
Candy. Flavor with Essence of Rose, or Peppermint, or finely powdered
Hoarhound. Pour it out in a buttered paper, placed in a square tin pan.

COLOGNE.--Take one gallon 95 per cent Alcohol or Cologne Spirits, two
ounces Oil of Bergamot, one-half ounce Orange, one-half ounce Oil of
Cedar, one-half drachm Oil of Nevio, one-half drachm Oil Rosemary. Mix
well and it is fit for use. A nice article.

BAY RUM, EQUAL TO THE BEST IMPORTED.--Oil of Bay, fine, one and
one-half drachms, Oil of Neroli (bigard) ten drops, Ether Acetic two
drachms, Alcohol deod. (strong) three pints, Water, two and one-fourth
pints, Caromel sufficient to tinge. Let it stand two weeks and filter.

COPYING PAD.--White Gelatine four ounces, Water eight ounces, Glycerine
eight ounces, Gum Dextrine two ounces. Always use these same
proportions for any amount. Melt the Gelatine in the water at a gentle
heat, add to it the Glycerine, in which the Gum Dextrine has been
thoroughly incorporated. Now stir all together until thoroughly mixed
and then pour into pans of the desired size, to the depth of one-half
inch.

_Recipe for Ink to Be Used._--Violet Analine forty grains, Gum Arabic
twelve grains, Alcohol one-fourth ounce, Water one-half ounce. Dissolve
the Gum in the Water and Alcohol, then add the Analine. Shake in a
bottle from time to time until the Analine is dissolved.

_To work the Copying Pad._--Write with ink on any good paper, press the
written surface on the pad and allow it to remain two minutes; then
take off and the writing will remain, from which impressions may be
taken by laying on plain paper, and smoothing with the hand. As soon as
the last impression is taken be sure and wash off with a wet sponge.

TO BORE HOLES IN GLASS.--Any hard steel tool will cut glass with great
facility when kept freely wet with camphor dissolved in turpentine. A
drill bow may be used, or even the hand alone. A hole bored may be
readily enlarged by a round file. The ragged edges of glass vessels may
also be thus easily smoothed by a flat file. Flat window glass can be
readily sawed by a watch spring saw by aid of this solution. In short
the most brittle glass can be wrought almost as easily as brass by the
use of cutting tools kept constantly moist with Camphorized Oil of
Turpentine.

TO ETCH UPON GLASS.--Procure several thick, clear pieces of crown
glass; and immerse them in Melted Wax, so that they may receive a
complete coating, or pour over them a solution of Wax in Benzine. When
perfectly cold draw on them with a fine steel point, flowers, trees,
houses, portraits, etc. Whatever parts of the drawings are intended to
be corroded with the acid should be perfectly free from the least
particle of wax. When all these drawings are finished the pieces of
glass must be immersed one by one in a square leaden box or receiver,
where they are to be submitted to the action of Hydroflouric Acid Gas,
made by acting on Powdered Flour-Spar by Concentrated Sulphuric Acid.
When the glasses are sufficiently corroded, they are to be taken out,
and the wax is to be removed by first dipping them in warm and then in
hot water, or by washing with turpentine or benzine. Various colors may
be applied to the corroded parts of the glass, whereby a fine painting
may be executed. In the same manner sentences and initials of names may
be etched on wine-glasses, tumblers, etc.

RUBBER HAND STAMPS.--Set up the desired name and address in common
type, oil the type, and place a guard about one-half inch high around
the form. Now mix Plaster of Paris to the desired consistency, pour in
and allow it to set. Have your Vulcanized Rubber all ready, as made in
long strips three inches wide and one-eighth of an inch thick, cut off
the size of the intended stamp. Remove the plaster cast from the type,
and place both the cast and the rubber in a screw press, applying
sufficient heat to thoroughly soften the rubber, then turn down the
screw hard, and let it remain until the rubber receives the exact
impression of the cast and becomes cold, when it is removed, neatly
trimmed with a sharp knife, and cemented to the handle, ready for use.

COMMON TWIST CANDY.--Boil three pounds of common Sugar and one pint of
water over a slow fire for half an hour without skimming. When boiled
enough take it off, rub your hands over with butter; take that which is
a little cooled and pull it as you would molasses candy, until it is
white; then twist or braid it and cut it up in strips.

STICKY FLY PAPER.--Boiled Linseed Oil and Rosin; melt and add honey.
Soak the paper in a strong solution of Alum, then dry before applying
the above.

KISS-ME-QUICK.--Spirits one gallon, Essence of Thyme one-fourth ounce,
Essence of Orange Flowers two ounces, Essence of Neroli one-half ounce,
Otto of Roses thirty drops, Essence of Jasmine one ounce, Essence of
Balm Mint one-half ounce, Petals of Roses four ounces, Oil of Lemon
twenty drops, Calorous Aromaticus one-half ounce, Essence Neroli
one-fourth ounce. Mix and strain.

HOW TO TEST THE RICHNESS OF MILK.--Procure any long glass vessel--a
cologne bottle or long phial. Take a narrow strip of paper, just the
length from the neck to the bottom of the phial, and mark it off with
100 lines at equal distances, or into fifty lines, and count each as
two, and paste upon the phial so as to divide its length into 100 equal
parts. Fill it to the highest mark with milk fresh from the cow, and
allow it to stand in a perpendicular position 24 hours. The number of
spaces occupied by the cream will give you its exact percentage in the
milk without any guess work.

FINE PEPPERMINT LOZENGES.--Best powdered White Sugar seven pounds, pure
Starch one pound, Oil of Peppermint to flavor. Mix with Mucilage.

HOW TO FASTEN RUBBER TO WOOD AND METAL.--As rubber plates and rings are
nowadays used almost exclusively for making connections between steam
and other pipes and apparatus, much annoyance is often experienced by
the impossibility or imperfection of an air-tight connection. This is
obviated entirely by employing a cement which fastens alike well to the
rubber and to the metal or wood. Such cement is prepared by a solution
of Shellac in Ammonia. This is best made by soaking pulverized Gum
Shellac in ten times its weight of strong Ammonia, when a slimy mass is
obtained, which in three or four weeks will become liquid without the
use of hot water. This softens the rubber and becomes, after
volatilization of the Ammonia, hard and impermeable to gases and
fluids.

TO TRANSFER PRINTED MATTER AND PRINT FROM IT AGAIN.--Take your picture
or print and soak it for a short time in a weak solution of Caustic
Potash, then remove it carefully, and let it dry on a sheet of clean
paper. Then take a piece of copper, zinc, or steel, which has
previously been well cleaned, and dip it into hot white wax. Let the
first coat set, then dip again. Having got the plate thoroughly coated
and set, lay the matter to be transferred on the plate, and rub it
gently all over on the back; now raise it up, and it will be
transferred on to the wax on the plate. Now take needles of a different
thickness, and scrawl all over the wax, following the lines of the
engraving. Having got the picture all traced out, pour upon it some
weak acid if you use zinc, which is too soft to print many from,
therefore it is better to use copper or steel. If you use copper, make
the following solution to pour over it: Verdigris four parts, Salt four
parts, Sal Ammoniac four parts, Alum one part, Water sixteen parts,
Sour Vinegar twelve parts. Dissolve by heat. For steel, use
Pyroligneous Acid five parts, Alcohol one part, Nitric Acid one part.
Mix the first two, then add the Nitric Acid. Pouring the preparations
over the plates where the traces of the pictures are, it will eat into
the metal plate without affecting the wax. Let it stand till it has
eaten a sufficient depth, then wash the plate with cold water, dry it
and place it near the fire till all the wax is melted off. You can now
print as many as you please from the plate by rubbing on it printer's
ink, so as to fill all the fine spaces; which, when done, wipe it over
smoothly with clean cloths to remove the superfluous ink which is on
the face of the plate. Now take damp paper or cardboard, and press it
on the plate, either with a copying press or the hand, and you get a
fine impression, or as many as you want by repeating the inking
process. I would recommend beginners to try their skill with valueless
prints before attempting to make transfers of fine engravings, as the
picture to be transferred is destroyed by the process.

I.X.L. BAKING POWDER.--Take one pound Tartaric Acid in Crystals, one
and one-half pounds Bi-Carbonate of Soda, and one and one-half pounds
of Potash Starch. Each must be powdered separately, well dried by a
slow heat, well mixed through a sieve. Pack hard in tinfoil, tin or
paper glazed on the outside. The Tartaric Acid and Bi-Carbonate of Soda
can of course be bought cheaper of wholesale druggists than you can
make them, unless you are doing things on a large scale, but Potato
Starch any one can make. It is only necessary to peel the potatoes and
to grate them up fine into vessels of water, to let them settle, pour
off the water, and make the settlings into balls, and dry them. With
these directions anyone can make as good baking-powder as is sold
anywhere. If he wants to make it very cheap, he can take Cream of
Tartar and common Washing (Carbonate) Soda, instead of the articles
named in the recipe, but this would be advisable only where customers
insist on excessively low prices in preference to quality of goods.

EVERLASTING FENCE POSTS.--I discovered many years ago that wood could
be made to last longer than iron in the ground, but thought the process
so simple and inexpensive that it was not worth while to make any stir
about it. I would as soon have poplar, basswood, or quaking ash as any
other kind of timber for fence posts. I have taken out basswood posts
after having been set seven years, which were as sound when taken out
as when they were first put in the ground. Time and weather seem to
have no effect on them. The posts can be prepared for less than two
cents apiece. This is the recipe: Take boiled Linseed Oil and stir it
in pulverized Charcoal to the consistency of paint. Put a coat of this
over the timber, and there is not a man that will live to see it rot.

LIQUID GLUE.--To one ounce of Borax in one pint of boiling water, add
two ounces of Shellac, and boil until the Shellac is dissolved.

TO MEND TINWARE BY THE HEAT OF A CANDLE.--Take a phial about two-thirds
full of Muriatic Acid and put into it little bits of Sheet Zinc as long
as it dissolves them; then put in a crumb of Sal Ammoniac and fill up
with water and it is ready to use. Then with the cork of the phial, wet
the place to be mended with the preparation; then put a piece of Zinc
over the hole and hold a lighted candle or spirit lamp under the place,
which melts the solder on the tin, and causes the zinc to adhere
without further trouble. Wet the zinc also with the solution; or a
little solder may be put on instead of the zinc or with the zinc.

TO WHITEN AND SOFTEN THE HANDS.--Take one-half lb. Mutton Tallow, one
ounce Camphor Gum, one ounce Glycerine; melt, and when thoroughly
mixed, set away to cool. Rub the hands with this every night.

A BRANDING INK.--A waterproof branding ink, good for marking sheep:
Shellac two ounces, Borax two ounces, Water twenty-four ounces, Gum
Arabic two ounces, Lamp Black sufficient. Boil the Borax and Shellac in
the water till they are dissolved, and withdraw them from the fire.
When the solution becomes cold, complete 25 ounces with water, and add
Lamp Black enough to bring the preparation to a suitable consistency.
When it is to be used with a stencil it must be made thicker than when
it is used with a brush. The above gives black ink. For red ink
substitute Venetian Red for Lamp Black; for blue Ultramarine; and for
green a mixture of Ultramarine and Chrome Yellow.

FRENCH POLISH, or DRESSING FOR LEATHER.--Mix two pints best Vinegar
with one pint soft water. Stir into it one-fourth pound Glue, broken
up, one-half pound Logwood chips, one-fourth ounce finely powdered
Indigo, one-fourth ounce best soft Soap, and one-fourth Isinglass. Put
the mixture over the fire, and let it boil ten minutes or more; then
strain, bottle and cork. When cold it is fit for use. Apply with a
sponge.

NEW YORK BARBER'S STAR HAIR OIL.--Castor Oil six and one-half pints,
Alcohol one and one-half pints, Citronella and Lavender Oil, each
one-half ounce.

BARBER'S SHAMPOOING MIXTURE.--Soft Water one pint, Sal Soda one ounce,
Cream Tartar one-fourth ounce. Apply thoroughly to the hair.

CRUCIBLES.--The best crucibles are made of a pure fire clay, mixed with
finely ground cement of oil crucibles, and a portion of black lead or
graphite; some pounded coke may be mixed with the plumbago. The clay
should be prepared in a similar way as for making pottery ware. The
vessels, after being formed, must be slowly dried, and then properly
baked in a kiln.

_Black Lead Crucibles_ are made of two parts of Graphite and one of
Fire Clay, mixed with Water into a paste, pressed in moulds, and well
dried, but not baked hard in the kiln. This compound forms excellent
small or portable furnaces.


WHAT TO INVENT, AND HOW TO PROTECT YOUR INVENTION.

WHAT TO INVENT.--Cheap, useful articles that will sell at sight.
Something that everyone needs, and the poorest can afford. Invent
simple things for the benefit of the masses, and your fortune is made.
Some years back a one-armed soldier amassed a fortune from a single
toy--a wooden ball attached to a rubber string. They cost scarcely
anything, yet millions were sold at a good price. A German became
enormously rich by patenting a simple wooden plug for beer barrels.
"What man has done, man may do."

HOW TO PROTECT YOUR INVENTION.--Patent it. If you do not, others will
reap the benefits that rightfully belong to you.

A PATENT IS A PROTECTION given to secure the inventor in the profits
arising from the manufacture and sale of an article of his own
creation.

TO WHOM LETTERS PATENT ARE GRANTED.--Section 4886 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States provides that: "Any person who has
invented or discovered any new and useful art, machine, manufacture or
composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof, not
known or used by others in this country, and not patented or described
in any printed publication in this or any foreign country, before his
invention or discovery thereof, and not in public use, or on sale for
more than two years prior to his application, unless the same is proved
to have been abandoned, may, upon the payment of the fees required by
law, and other due proceedings had, obtain a patent therefor."

And section 4888 of the same Statute enacts:

Section 4888. Before any inventor or discoverer shall receive a patent
for his invention or discovery, he shall make application therefor, in
writing, to the Commissioner of Patents, and shall file in the Patent
Office a written description of the same, and of the manner and process
of making, constructing, compounding, and using it, in such full,
clear, concise and exact terms, as to enable any person skilled in the
art or science to which it appertains, or with which it is most nearly
connected, to make, construct, compound, and use the same; and in case
of a machine, he shall explain the principle thereof and the best mode
in which he has contemplated applying that principle, so as to
distinguish it from other inventions; and he shall particularly point
out and distinctly claim that part, improvement or combination which he
claims as his invention or discovery. The specification and claim shall
be signed by the inventor and attested by two witnesses.

It is also required by law that when "The case admits of drawings," it
shall be properly illustrated; and also, if the Commissioner requires
it, that a model shall be furnished in cases capable of such
demonstration.

The cost of obtaining Letters Patent in ordinary cases is: First,
Government fees, $15; counsel fees, including drawings, $25; second, or
final Government fees, to be paid within six months from date of
allowance, $20; total, $60.

DESIGNS.--A design patent can be obtained for novelties in the shape of
configuration of articles, or impressions by any means whatever. These
patents are of great value to the trade.

The Government fees for a design patent are:

    On filing every application for a design patent            $10.00
    On issuing a design patent for 3-1/2 years no further charge.
    On issuing a design patent for 7 years                       5.00
    On issuing a design patent for 14 years                     20.00

CAVEATS.--A caveat is a confidential communication used in the Patent
Office, and it consists of a specification, drawings, oath and
petition. The specification must contain a clear description of the
intended invention.

HOW A COPYRIGHT IS SECURED.--The method by which a copyright is
obtained under the revised acts of Congress is as simple and
inexpensive as can be reasonably asked. All unnecessary red tape is
dispensed with, and the cost to the author who is seeking thus to
protect himself in the enjoyment of the profits of his work, is so
small as to be scarcely appreciable. This is an example of cheapness
and directness toward which all branches of public administration
should tend, if a government is to fulfill its proper mission of
serving the people without needlessly taxing them. Directions have
lately been issued for the guidance of persons wishing to obtain
copyrights; and, as many of our readers may not be conversant with the
subject, we give a brief abstract of the process.

The first thing necessary is to send a printed copy of the title of the
work, plainly directed to "Librarian of Congress, Washington, D.C."
The copyright law applies not only to books, pamphlets and newspapers,
but also to maps, charts, photographs, paintings, drawings, music,
statuary, etc. If there is a title page, send that; if not, a title
must be printed expressly for the purpose, and in both cases the name
of the author or claimant of copyright must accompany the title. Use no
smaller paper than commercial note.

A remittance of one dollar must be made along with the application.
This is the whole charge--half of it being for the entry on the record,
and the other half for your certificate, which the Librarian will send
you promptly by mail. You will of course prepay your postage.

Within ten days after your book, or other article, is published, you
are required to send two complete copies of the best edition to the
Librarian, addressed as before, prepaying postage; or the Librarian
will furnish "penalty labels," under which they can be sent free of
postage. If this deposit of copies is neglected, the copyright is void,
and you are liable to fine of $25.

The law requires that on the title page of a copyrighted work, or some
part of the drawing, painting, statue, or whatever it may be, there
shall be printed these words: "Entered according to act of Congress, in
the year ----, by ----, in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at
Washington;" or, if preferred, this briefer form may be used:
"Copyright, 18--, by ----." To this may be added, "Right of translation
reserved," or "All rights reserved;" but in that case the Librarian
must have been duly notified, so that he may include it in the record.

Any person who prints the copyright notice on his work without having
obtained a copyright, is liable to a penalty of $1.00. The original
term of a copyright runs for twenty-eight years, and it may then be
renewed for a further term of fourteen years, either by the author or
by his widow or children, application being made not less than six
months before the expiration of the right. Trade marks and labels
cannot be copyrighted under this law, but are provided for by a
separate act, relating to matters of detail, which cannot here be
recited, but in regard to which, the Librarian at Washington will give
the needed information whenever required.

TRADE MARKS, LABELS, PRINTS, ETC.--Copyrights cannot be granted upon
trade marks, nor upon mere names of companies or articles, nor upon
prints or labels intended to be used with any article of manufacture.
If protection for such names or labels is desired, application must be
made to the Patent Office, where they are registered at a fee of $6 for
labels, and $25 for trade marks.

By the word "print" is meant any device, word, or figures (not a trade
mark) impressed directly upon the article, to denote the name of the
manufacturer, etc.

By the word "label" is meant a slip of paper, or other material, to be
attached to manufactured articles, or to packages containing them, and
bearing the name of the manufacturer, directions for use, etc.

WATER ICES.--Some make these with acid, water, flavor, and the whites
of eggs. _No good._

The best rules for the amount of sugar is to suit your taste.

FRANGIPANNA.--Spirits one gallon, Oil Bergamot one ounce, Oil of Lemon
one ounce; macerate for four days, frequently shaking; then add Water
one gallon, Orange Flower Water one pint, Essence of Vanilla two
ounces. Mix.

SILVERING POWDER.--Nitrate of Silver and common Salt, of each thirty
grains, Cream of Tartar three and one-half drachms. Pulverize finely,
mix thoroughly, and bottle for use. Unequaled for polishing copper and
plated goods.

EXTRACT OF LEMON.--Three ounces Oil Lemon; cut with 95 proof Alcohol;
add one gallon 80 proof Alcohol, and filter through cotton or felt. Put
up in two ounce bottles. Sells for 25 cents; jobs at $1.00 and $1.50
according to quality and style of package.

BALM OF A THOUSAND FLOWERS.--Deodorized Alcohol one pint, nice white
Bar Soap four ounces; shave the soap when put in, stand in a warm place
till dissolved, then add Oil of Citronella one drachm, and Oils of
Neroli and Rosemary, of each one-half drachm.

TIN CANS.--Size of sheet for from 1 to 100 gallons:

    For   1 gallon          7 by 20 ins.
    For   3-1/2 gallons    10 by 28 ins.
    For   5  gallons       12 by 40 ins.
    For   6  gallons       14 by 40 ins.
    For  10  gallons       20 by 42 ins.
    For  15  gallons       30 to 42 ins.
    For  25  gallons       30 by 56 ins.
    For  40  gallons       36 by 63 ins.
    For  50  gallons       40 by 70 ins.
    For  75  gallons       40 by 84 ins.
    For 100 gallons        40 by 98 ins.

This includes all laps, seams, etc., which will be found sufficiently
correct for all practical purposes.

MOULDS AND DIES.--Copper, Zinc and Silver in equal proportions, melt
together under a coat of powdered charcoal, and mould into the form you
desire. Bring them to nearly a white heat, and lay on the thing you
would take an impression of, press with sufficient force, and you will
get a perfect and beautiful impression.

INDESTRUCTIBLE LAMP WICKS.--Steep common wicks in a concentrated
aqueous solution of Tungstate of Soda, and then dry thoroughly in an
oven.

A GOLD PLATE FOR SMALL ARTICLES, WITHOUT A BATTERY.--Digest a small
fragment of gold with about ten times its weight of mercury until it is
dissolved, shake the amalgam together in a bottle, and after cleansing
the articles, coat them uniformly with the amalgam. Then expose them on
an iron tray heated to low redness for a few minutes. The mercury
volatilizes, leaving the gold attached as a thin coating to the
article. The heating should be done in a stove, so that the poisonous
mercurial fumes may pass up the chimney.

A GELATINE MOULD FOR CASTING PLASTER ORNAMENTS.--Allow twelve ounces of
Gelatine to soak for a few hours in water, until it has absorbed as
much as it can, then apply heat, by which it will liquify. If the mould
is required to be elastic, add three ounces of Treacle, and mix well
with the Gelatine. If a little Chrome Alum (precise proportions are
immaterial) be added to the Gelatine, it causes it to lose its property
of being again dissolved in water. A saturated solution of Bichromate
of Potash brushed over the surface of the mould, allowed to become dry
and afterwards exposed to sunlight for a few minutes, renders the
surface so hard as to be unaffected by moisture.

IMITATION OF GROUND GLASS.--The following is from an Antwerp scientific
journal. Paint the glass with the following varnishes: Sandarac
eighteen drachms, Mastic four drachms, Ether twenty-four ounces,
Benzine six to eighteen ounces. The more Benzine the coarser the grain
of imitation glass will be.

UNSHRINKABLE PATTERNS.--The best mixture for small patterns, that does
not shrink in casting, is sixty-nine parts Lead, fifteen and one-half
parts Antimony, fifteen and one-half parts Bismuth, by weight. A cheap
kind for finished patterns can be made of ten parts Zinc, one part
Antimony, one part Tin.

TO MAKE ARTIFICIAL MARBLE FOR PAPER WEIGHTS OR OTHER FANCY
ARTICLES.--Soak Plaster of Paris in a solution of Alum, bake it in an
over, and then grind it to a powder. In using mix it with water, and to
produce the clouds and veins stir in any dry color you wish; this will
become very hard, and is susceptible of a very high polish.

MOLDS OF GLUE AND MOLASSES, SUCH AS RODGERS USES FOR MAKING HIS
STATUETTES.--The flexible moulds referred to are prepared as follows:
Glue eight pounds, Molasses (New Orleans) seven pounds. Soak the Glue
over night in a small quantity of cold water, then melt it by heat over
a salt water bath, stir until froth begins to rise, then add and stir
in briskly the Molasses previously heated. Continue to heat and stir
the mixture for about half an hour; then pour.

TO CLARIFY LIQUIDS.--The following composition is said to bleach all
colored liquids, and to render bone-black perfectly unnecessary:
Albumen three hundred, Neutral Tartrate of Potash two, Alum five, Sal
Ammoniac seven hundred parts. The Albumen must of course not be
coagulated. The ingredients are first dissolved in a little water and
then added to the liquid to be clarified.

TO PREVENT STORE WINDOWS FROM STEAMING.--J. F. writes: I am about to
have the front show windows of my store inclosed with inside windows.
Can you tell any way to prevent the outside windows frosting in cold
weather? A. Clean the glass occasionally with a cloth moistened with
pure Glycerine, wiping it so as to leave only a trace of the Glycerine
adhering to the surface--this on the inside.

ARTIFICIAL INDIA RUBBER.--A cheap and useful substitute for Indian
rubber is prepared by mixing a thick solution of Glue with Tungstate of
Soda and Hydrochloric Acid. A compound of Tungstic Acid and Glue is
precipitated, which at a temperature of 86 degrees to 104 degrees F. is
sufficiently elastic to admit of being drawn out into very thin sheets.
On cooling this mass becomes solid and brittle, but on being heated is
again soft and plastic. This new compound can be used for many of the
purposes to which rubber is adapted.

RUBBER STAMPS FOR PHOTOGRAPHS.--Many photographers employ a rubber
stamp for imprinting the backs of mounts, and in these circumstances a
good ink is very essential. Here is the recipe for making one quoted
from the _Engineer_, and said to yield an excellent ink which, while
not drying on the pad, will yet not readily smear when impressed upon
paper: Aniline Red (Violet) one hundred and eighty grains, distilled
Water two ounces, Glycerine one teaspoonful, Treacle one-half
teaspoonful. The crystals of Aniline are powdered and dissolved in the
boiling distilled water, and the other ingredients then added.

A GOOD IDEA.--_How to Remove Pain and Soreness from Wounds._ The value
of the smoke from burned wool to remove the pain and soreness from
wounds of all kinds, or from sores, is great, and it will give
immediately relief from the intense pain caused by a gathering. The
easiest way to prepare this is to cut all-wool flannel--if you haven't
the wool--into narrow strips, take some hot ashes with a few small live
coals on a shovel, sprinkle some of the flannel strips on it, and hold
the injured member in the smoke for five or ten minutes, using plenty
of flannel to make a thick smoke. Repeat as often as seems necessary,
though one smoking is usually enough.

CHILBLAINS.--We glean two prescriptions from the _British Medical
Journal_. They are now being used in this country, and with good
results. Lin. Belladonnæ two drachms, Lin. Aconita one drachm, Acid
Carbolici six minims, Collod. Flexil one ounce.

Mix and apply every night with a camel's hair pencil, Collod. Flexil
four drachms, Oleiricini four drachms, Spt. Tereb, four drachms. Use
three times daily with camel's hair brush.

SAID TO BE GOOD FOR GRIP.--Anything that affords hope of relief from
Grip is of interest. Pauline Crayson writes from Cranford, N.J., to
_New York Tribune_, saying: "I have found Peroxide of Hydrogen
(medicinal) a marvelous remedy in the treatment of grip and influenza.
This medicine should be diluted with water and administered internally,
and by snuffing through the nostrils or by spraying the nostrils and
throat. I believe the good results from this treatment, which I have
never known to fail of producing a speedy cure, are due to the
destruction of the microbe upon which this disease depends." The remedy
is simple and within the reach of everybody, and can easily be tested.

STICKS LIKE A BROTHER.--A paste that will adhere to anything.--Prof.
Alex. Winchell is credited with the invention of a cement that will
stick to anything (_Nat. Drug_). Take two ounces of clear Gum Arabic,
one and one-half ounces of fine Starch and one-half ounce of White
Sugar. Pulverize the Gum Arabic, and dissolve it in as much water as
the laundress would use for the quality of starch indicated. Dissolve
the starch and sugar in the gum solution. Then cook the mixture in a
vessel suspended in boiling water until the starch becomes clear. The
cement should be as thick as tar and keep so. It can be kept from
spoiling by dropping in a lump of Gum Camphor, or a little Oil of
Cloves or Sassafras. This cement is very strong indeed, and will stick
perfectly to glazed surfaces, and is good to repair broken rocks,
minerals or fossils. The addition of a small amount or Sulphate of
Aluminum will increase the effectiveness of the paste, besides helping
to prevent decomposition.


DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING ALL KINDS OF CANDY.

MOLASSES TAFFY.--New Orleans Molasses one pint, Sugar one and one-half
pounds, Water one-half pint (no doctor). Stir all the time to a good
light snap. Lemon flavor. Work as above.

CREAM TAFFY.--Same as above. When to the ball degree have ready half
cup cider vinegar, one-fourth pipe Cream Tartar, dissolve in the
Vinegar, four ounces Butter. Add, stir, and work as you do the white
taffy.

NUT TAFFY.--Use the cream taffy recipe. Just before the candy is done
cooking stir in any kind of nut goodies, pour out, and when cool enough
not to run, form it into a block, cut or break it with a hammer.

GOOD BROWN BUTTER-SCOTCH.--C Sugar, three pounds; Water, one and
one-fourth pint; Cream Tartar, one full pipe dissolved in one cup Cider
Vinegar; Molasses, one-half pint; Butter, eight ounces (no flavor). Add
all except the Vinegar, Cream Tartar and Butter. Boil to medium ball,
then add the Cream Tartar in the Vinegar and Butter. Stir all the time
carefully. Boil to light snap finish as before in cheap Butter-Scotch.

SOUR LEMON DROPS.--Make a batch of barley squares. Just as soon as you
pour it on the slab sprinkle over it three-fourths ounce dry Tartaric
Acid, two tablespoons Lemon flavor; turn the cold edges in to the
center of the batch, work it like bread dough; place this before a hot
stove on your table and cut into little pieces with your scissors, or
run the batch through a drop machine.

All goods that you want to spin out or run through a machine or cut
with scissors should be kept warm by a sheet iron stove, on a brick
foundation, fitted in the table evenly, and the candy placed in front
to keep warm.

Should the candy slab, after it is greased, act sticky, not allowing
the candy to come up freely, throw a dust of flour over the sticky
place after it has been greased.

STICK CANDY.--Stick candy is made precisely the same as peppermint
clips, by keeping the batch round, and a second person to twist them
and keep them rolling until cold. This can be done only by practice.
The sticks are then chopped in the desired length by heavy shears.

STRAWBERRY.--Same, only flavor with strawberry; color with liquid
coloring slightly.

MAPLE CARAMELS.--Use one-half Maple Sugar with C Sugar. No flavor.

WALNUT CARAMELS.--Same as the first. When done, stir in sufficient nuts
to suit.

A better caramel can be made with white sugar, and milk instead of
water.

Still better, by using cream one quart, and when cream cannot be had,
condensed milk dissolved in milk works fine.

ALMOND BARS.--Same as peanut, only add the Almond nuts in time to allow
them to roast a little in the boiling sugar. One-fourth of a pint of
New Orleans syrup added to the boiling sugar improves the flavor and
color.

CHOCOLATE COATING.--Can use sweet confectioners', or confectioners'
plain (never use the quarter and one-pound grocery packages, as it
contains too much sugar to melt good). Place a small piece of paraffine
the size of a hickory-nut and one small teaspoon of lard in a rice
cooker, melt, add one-half pound of chocolate, stir until dissolved;
dip balls of cream in this chocolate, drop on wax paper to cool, and
you have fine hand made chocolate drops.

COLD SUGAR ICING.--For dipping cream drops. Confectioners' sugar with
the white of eggs and a small amount of dissolved Gum Arabic in water.
Make this into a batter. If thick, the drops will be rough; if thin,
the drops will be smooth.

COCOANUT CREAM ICE.--Two pounds granulated sugar, three-fourths pint
water, boil to a light crack; set off, add four ounces glucose (or the
amount of cream tartar you can hold on the point of a penknife); set
back on the fire, just let come to a boil to dissolve the glucose; set
off again, add immediately one-fourth ounce shaved paraffine, six
ounces cream dough cut up fine, one grated cocoanut. Stir all until it
creams, pour out into a frame on brown paper dusted with flour, mark
and cut with a knife when cold.

OPERA CREAMS.--Two pounds white sugar, three-fourths pint cow's cream,
boil to a soft ball; set off; add two ounces glucose; set on, stir easy
until it commences to boil, then pour out, let get three-fourths cold,
and stir it until it turns into a cream. Then work into two tablespoons
vanilla, line a pan with wax paper, flatten the batch in it, and mark
it in squares. Set aside two hours to harden.

ITALIAN CREAM OPERAS.--Melt four ounces butter with four ounces plain
chocolate. Take a batch of the opera cream; when cooked, add the above,
stir it in the kettle until it creams, then pan and work it as you do
the operas.

BUTTER CREAMS.--One and one-half pounds white sugar, and one-half pound
C. sugar, three-fourths pound glucose, one-fourth pint molasses, one
and one-fourth pint water; boil to the hard snap, add six ounces
butter, set off until it melts; set on and let boil, to well mix the
butter; pour out. Have one pound hard cream dough thoroughly warmed,
just so you can handle it. When the batch is cold enough on the stove
to handle, place the warm cream lengthwise on the center of it and
completely wrap the cream up in it. Place this on your table before
your heater, spin out in long strips, have some one to mark them heavy
or good. When cold, break where marked.

BOSTON CHIPS.--Three pounds of white sugar, one-half pipe cream tartar,
one and one-fourth pints water; boil with a lid over it to the hard
snap; pour; pull this only half as much as any other candy; for too
much pulling takes out all the gloss when done; flavor it on the hook;
wear your gloves, place it before your heater on the table, flatten out
and spin out into thin ribbons, break off and curl them up in little
piles.

Strawberry chips can be made the same way, adding a pinch of cochineal
paste.

DATE OR FIG SQUARES.--Can be made by cutting them fine, scatter them
thick over the greased stone, and pour over them a batch of barley
square candy. Mark and cut with a knife.

PINE TREE TAR COUGH CANDY.--First have one tablespoon oil of tar
dissolved in two tablespoons of alcohol.

Cook to a hard snap twenty pounds sugar (white), three quarts water,
three pounds glucose; pour out; scatter over (while cooling) twenty
drops of tar, two tablespoons oil of capsicum, three tablespoons oil of
wintergreen; work all well into the batch (do not pull this on the
hook).

Place before your heater on the table and spin it out in large round
sticks. Have some one to keep them rolling until cold. Cut into sticks
about three and one-half inches long. Wrap them in printed labels.

DATE AND FIG CREAMS.--Seed dates, cut a piece out of the end V shape,
insert a white or pink cream ball, press it in, and stick a clove in
the end; it looks like a pear.

Cut figs in strips, place the seedy side around a piece of cream dough.
The hand made cream can be made into various varieties of candy to suit
your fancy.

FACTORY CREAM DOUGH.--This recipe is worth twenty-five dollars to any
candy maker. When the cream is first done it appears flaky and coarse;
but the next morning it is fine, and the longer it sets the better it
is. When made up it never gets stale or hard. Never use flour to roll
out cream with when you can get the XXX lozenge sugar. Forty pounds
granulated sugar, five quarts water; boil to a stiff ball; set off; add
quickly twelve pounds of glucose. Do not stir. Set on the fire, let it
come to a boil until you see even the scum boiled in (do not allow the
glucose to cook in the sugar). Pour out, wait only until you can lay
the back of your hand on the top of batch. (Never let it get colder, it
is better to cream while hot than cold like other goods). Cream it with
two garden hoes, or cream scrapers. Add while creaming one-fourth pint
scant measure of glycerine. No need of kneading it, scrape into your
tub for use. (If A sugar is used the cream is sticky.)

IMITATION HAND-MADE CHOCOLATE.--Take a suitable hand made. Make your
plaster paris prints. Take a quantity of the above cream, melt in a
bath, flavor and mould. Dip.

A NUMBER ONE CHOCOLATE DROP.--Moulding cream; granulated sugar, twenty
pounds; water, three quarts. Boiled to a thread, set off, add three
pounds of glucose dissolved; pour, let get cold. Cream, melt, add pinch
of glucose to one pint simple syrup; four tablespoonfuls of glycerine.
Stir. Mould.

CHEAP CHOCOLATES.--Quick work. Make a batch of the above number one.
Exactly the same process. After the glucose is dissolved in the batch
do not pour out, but add five pounds of the hard factory cream in
pieces. Stir, flavor, melt. Set this kettle in a kettle of boiling
water, have a boy to stir and watch it; do not allow it to get so thin
as to simmer, only thin enough to run into your starch prints. This
cream saves time and labor.

TO WORK OVER SCRAPS OF CANDY.--To thirty pounds of scraps use one
gallon water; stir until it boils; set off, for it would never melt any
more by boiling; continue stirring until all is dissolved. Set aside
until cold. Skim off the top. This can be worked into hoar-hound or
dark penny goods, pop-corn bricks, etc.

TO COOK OVER MAPLE SUGAR.--To sixty pounds broken up maple, add water
(according to the hard or soft grain of the sugar) enough to dissolve.
Stir until melted. If the grain was soft, add fifteen pounds granulated
sugar; if the hard grain, only add that amount of C. sugar. Boil to 244
degrees by thermometer, or good ball. Take out some in porcelain sauce
pan, grain until cloudy (to make quick work always have a small portion
in the same sauce pan for the next stirring). Pour in moulds greased,
or put in a tub of cold water.

ARTIFICIAL MAPLE SUGAR.--Dark C. sugar (driest), two pounds; water,
one-third pint; butter, two ounces, melted; flavor with maple flavor;
boil to a ball, cream in the pan. Pour before it gets too stiff.

MOLASSES POP-CORN BALLS.--Always sift your corn after it is popped. For
home use, add butter and lemon flavor to your syrup. This is too
expensive for retail and factory use, though some use lard sparingly.
Boil molasses to a stiff ball, wet your tub, put in your corn; now with
a dipper pour over your candy and stir with a paddle through the corn,
wet your hands in cold water, make your balls and wrap in wax paper,
twisting the ends close to the balls.

FOR WHITE OR RED.--Sugar and glucose half and half, water, to melt and
boil as above. Work the same.

To make six hundred bricks a day and pop this corn, put a coarse sieve
in a box or barrel bottom, instead of the natural bottom. Sift your
corn. Have your popper made with a swinging wire, hanging from the
ceiling down over the furnace to save labor. Have a stout, thick, wide
board for the floor of your press; make a stout frame the width that
two brick will measure in length; as long as twelve bricks are thick,
and have your boards six or eight inches wide. Put your frame together;
now make a stout lid of one-inch lumber to fit in your frame; have four
cleats nailed crosswise to make it stout, and a 2×4 piece nailed
lengthwise across the top of these (shorter than the lid is); now for a
lever get a hard 2×4, six to eight feet long; fasten the ends of this
lever to the floor, giving it six inches of the rope to play in.

Now you are ready; wet your flour board and dust it with flour; do the
lid and frame the same. To every thirty pounds melted scraps of candy
use two pounds of butter. (You can't cut the bricks without it.) Cook
to a hard ball.

To three-fourths tub of corn, pour three small dippers of syrup; pour
this when mixed in your frame on the flour board, put on the lid, with
the lever press once the center, once each end, and once more the
center; take out the lid, lift the frame, dump out on the table. When
two-thirds cool, cut lengthwise with a sharp, thin knife, then cut your
bricks off crosswise.

Penny pop-corn bricks are made the same way.

CANDY PENNY POP-CORN PIECES.--Cook a batch of glucose to a light snap,
flavor well, pour thin. While hot place your pop-corn sheet hard down
on the candy, mark deep cut and wrap. I have put boys on this work in
the shop at five dollars a week pay, and knew them to clear for the
proprietor from five to twenty dollars daily for several months; one to
pop corn, one to cook syrup, one to press, and one to cut them, girls
to wrap and box.

TO SHELL COCOANUTS.--Take the nut in the left hand with the three eyes
up; strike from the nut down with your hatchet; peel with a knife or
spoke shave, cut them into four pieces, cover them with water, set on
the furnace, and let come to a good boil. If the nuts are sour, strain
and add fresh cold water quickly so as the heat will not darken them,
and repeat. If very sour scrape the insides out. Grate them, taking out
one pieces at a time, as the air does them no good.

RED CENTER.--Take two-thirds, pour thin; color the remaining one-third
red with the liquor color; place this on the half of the two-thirds,
and turn the other up over on top, roll out flat with a roller, cool,
cut.

The same goods cooked to a soft ball may be made into balls to be
coated in red sugar after throwing them in hot sugar syrup; also to be
dipped in melted cream, or brown the cocoanut balls on top with burnt
sugar. Chocolate glaze cream coating eats well over these goods, or dip
the balls as you like.

FLAVORINGS.--To any kind of oils take eight times in bulk the amount of
Alcohol: stir, let set in a warm place a short time; can be used if
needed immediately.

HOME MADE MAPLE SUGAR.--To two pounds of maple (bricks, not cakes) 1
pint water, one-third pipe cream of tartar (or four ounces of glucose
is best); boil slow to a smooth degree, cool, skim. White sugar can be
used.

To keep molasses from sugaring in the barrel; when making the molasses,
to every barrel add twenty pounds of glucose, stir it in.

To lighten the color and aid the flavor of rank, dark molasses, do the
same as above. To allow molasses to cool slowly makes it dark. It
should be stirred lively until cool.

Also to improve sour, rank molasses, take the molasses, for instance,
ten gallons; take five pounds dry C sugar, five pounds glucose, water
two quarts. Boil the sugar and glucose until thoroughly dissolved; add
the molasses, boil five minutes. You can make fine syrup this way.

TO MAKE A CANDY HOUSE.--House for a show window. Take any design you
fancy, of card board. Cut out the windows; place this on your candy
slab. Now with a lead pencil mark out your design, and as many of each
piece as you need (it is a good idea to make an extra piece so if you
break one you can go ahead). Now take of the icing sugar and fill your
paper funnel as if for cake icing, and overline the pencil marks you
made on the stone. When done you find you have a frame that will hold
hot candy. Boil a batch of Barley Square goods (mentioned in this
book), and pour on some in a dipper; take this and pour in your icing
sugar frame or patterns you made on the stone, when half cold, so as
not to run; run a thin knife under them carefully, lift them and lay
them in a different place on the stone; when you have moulded all cut
off the icing sugar that sticks to the candy. Then put your candy house
together, sides first, and take pieces of lemon stick candy, dip them
in the hot candy, and stick in the bottom and top corners of your
house; hold them a few seconds to cool, then finish likewise. When
done, take your icing sugar and funnel paper and on the outside corners
of the candy house put icing sugar and the windows finish the same.
Candies, if desired, can be stuck on with the icing sugar, etc. The
icing sugar should be stiff for a nice job, and will hide the corners.

Candy pyramids can be made this way also.

TO MAKE A DELICIOUS CANDY COCOANUT CAKE.--Have your cake layers cold.
Place in your rice steamer one-half grated cocoanut and a chunk of
hand-made cream the size of your fist; stir until mixed and you can
spread it; do not melt it more than necessary. This cake will not dry
out if made with factory cream. I gave this recipe to two London
practical cake bakers; they said it beat any cake recipe they had ever
received.

Put your mind to work and with a little practice you will get up
candies of your own invention, from the knowledge you derive here in
this book.

ICE CREAM.--I will give only the best recipe, my own improvement, as
workmen will find all my private recipes in this book to be different
from others, as well as first-class. Two quarts thick cream, one pound
A sugar, one-fourth ounce French gelatine, yolks of three eggs; add one
quart of the cream and gelatine, set on the fire; stir; do not let
boil; melt; set off, add the eggs and sugar stirred up together with a
little of the cream, stirring all the time; set on, let get hot; set
off, add the other quart of cream; stir, strain, freeze. Break your ice
fine; use salt from one pint to one quart. Flavor after it is frozen.

FAIR GROUND LEMONADE.--Take one barrel water; dissolve in one quart of
warm water twenty-five cents worth citric acid; dissolve two dollars'
worth A sugar in one gallon water. Stir all together. A few cut up
pieces of lemon can be added for appearance sake.

JAP COCOANUT.--One pound XXX confectioner's sugar, dampened a little;
one and one-half pounds glucose; stir when cooked to a soft ball; add
all the grated cocoanut it will stick together; boil, stir to the
lightest crack.

LEMON ICE.--Seven lemons, the juice only, juice of three oranges. Take
one pint water, dissolve in one-half ounce of French sheet gelatine;
then add whites of two eggs, one and one-fourth pounds A sugar,
dissolved; add all together with three pints cold water; freeze as for
ice cream. Keep machine running briskly until finished.

ORANGE ICE.--The same by changing the fruit proportionately.

THE ADULTERATIONS USED BY CERTAIN FACTORIES.--(Please never try to make
use of the following, for I never would print it for that purpose, only
to expose the stuff.)

Grape sugar, which looks like cheap suet melted, and is so hard as to
be chopped with an ax, though it dissolves readily. Terra alba, white
clay, which is fine as sugar, and is sieved into cream work or on
candy, and worked into it. Rice flour, ground rice mixed into cocoanut
goods; cerealine, ground, prepared corn mixed into cocoanut. Glucose
has the name of being an adulteration, though I fail, from seventeen
years' experience, to find it such; it contains nothing outside of the
acid to make it so, and that is in so small a portion as to be
harmless. It is an article that is of greater value to man than the
inexperienced give it credit for. If I had time I could argue this
question satisfactorily to any unprejudiced person. Gamboge is a bad
article for candy, yellow, cheap, hurtful color. Ground cocoanut shells
are used mostly in adulterating pepper, etc. "Who is to blame for
adulterating goods?" I claim three parties--first, the proprietor;
next, candy makers; and next, the ignorant class of people that want
sixteen cents' worth of boiled sugar for eight cents, when they do not
stop to think it could not possibly be made for less than eight cents,
all told.

Germany and France have strong laws against all adulterations. Soon
America will prohibit the same, and bless God when the day and law we
so much need will come.

HOW TO ORNAMENT CAKES.--You need four cups of confectioners' finest
sugar, whites of two eggs. Beat the eggs just a little, add the sugar
gradually, juice one lemon; beat this stiff, until the sugar will bend
when you hold the paddle up. Now take a sheet of thick writing paper,
fold it into a funnel shape, hold it in your left hand; fill this with
the icing, prepared as above, about two-thirds full, fold in the top
and place both thumbs on it, cut off a little of the small end of the
funnel to allow the icing to come out when you press with your thumbs.
Next, with a knife, cover your cake with icing sugar smoothly; if it
sticks to the knife, wet it a little. Let dry half hour; then with a
lead pencil make leaves or designs, and with your paper funnel ice your
pencil designs. Colored icing looks well.

TAKING LEAF PHOTOGRAPHS--A very pretty amusement, especially for those
who have just completed the study of botany, is the taking of leaf
photographs. One very simple process is this: At any druggist's get an
ounce of Bichromate of Potassium. Put this into a pint bottle of water.
When the solution becomes saturated--that is, the water is dissolved as
much as it will--pour off some of the clear liquid into a shallow dish;
on this float a piece of ordinary writing paper till it is thoroughly
moistened, let it dry in the dark. It should be a bright yellow. On
this put the leaf, under a piece of black soft cloth and several sheets
of newspaper. Put these between two pieces of glass (all the pieces
should be of the same size) and with spring clothespins fasten them
together. Expose to a bright sun, placing the leaf so that the rays
will fall upon it as nearly perpendicular as possible. In a few moments
it will begin to turn brown; but it requires from half an hour to
several hours to produce a perfect print. When it has become dark
enough, take it from the frame, and put it into clear water, which must
be changed every few minutes until the yellow part becomes white.
Sometimes the leaf veinings will be quite distinct. By following these
directions it is scarcely possible to fail, and a little practice will
make perfect.

CURIOUS THINGS.--1. To apparently burn water, fill a glass lamp with
water, and put into it for a wick a piece of Gum Camphor. The lamp
should not be quite full, and the camphor may be left to float upon the
surface of the water. On touching a lighted match to the Camphor, up
shoots a clear, steady flame, and seems to sink below the surface of
the water, so that the flame is surrounded by the liquid. It will burn
a long time. If the Camphor be ignited in a large dish of water it will
commonly float about while burning.

2. To change the faces of a group to a livid, deathly whiteness, and to
destroy colors, wet a half teacupful of common salt in Alcohol and burn
it on a plate in a dark room. Let the salt soak a few minutes before
igniting. The flame will deaden the brightest colors in the room, and
the dresses of the company will seem to be changed. Let each one put
his face behind the flame, and it will present a most ghastly spectacle
to those who stand before it. This is serviceable in tableau where
terror of death is to be represented. The change wrought by the flame,
when the materials are properly prepared, is very surprising.

3. Wet a piece of thick wrapping paper, then dry near the stove. While
dry, lay it down upon a varnished table or dry woolen cloth, and rub it
briskly with a piece of India rubber. It will soon become electrified,
and if tossed against the wall or the looking glass will stick some
time. Tear tissue-paper into bits, one-eighth of an inch square, and
this piece of electrified paper will draw them. Or take a tea-tray and
put it on three tumblers. Lay the electric paper on it, and on touching
the tray you will get a little spark. Let the paper lay on the tray,
and on touching the tray again you will get another spark, but of the
opposite kind of electricity. Replace the paper and you will get
another, and so on.

4. To produce a spectrum, burn magnesium wire in a dark room, and as
soon as the flame is extinguished, let each one try to look into the
other's faces. The spectrum of the extinguished light is clearly seen.

MURIATE OF TIN. TIN LIQUOR.--If druggists keep it, it is best to
purchase of them already made, but if you prefer, proceed as follows:
Get at a tinner's shop block tin, put it into a shovel and melt it.
After it is melted, pour it from the height of four or five feet into a
pail of clear water. The object of this is to have the tin in small
particles, so that the Acid can dissolve it. Take it out of the water
and dry it; then put it in a strong brass bottle. Pour over it Muriatic
Acid twelve ounces, then slowly add sulphuric acid eight ounces. The
Acid should be added about a tablespoonful at a time, at intervals of
five or eight minutes, for if you add it too rapidly you run the risk
of breaking the bottle by heat. After you have all the Acid in, let the
bottle stand until the ebullition subsides; then stop it up with
beeswax or glass stopper, and set it away; and it will keep good for a
year or more, or it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours.

THE CENTENNIAL ILLUMINATING OIL.--_Recipe for Making One Gallon._--Take
seven-eighths gallon Benzine or crude Petroleum, add to it one-half
ounce Gum Camphor, one-half ounce Alcohol, one-half pint common Salt,
one-half ounce Oil of Sassafras. Stir and mix it well for about five
minutes. Let is stand for twenty-four hours and it is ready for use. It
is better to buy the Benzine from Pittsburgh, Pa., as the druggists
usually charge two or three times the wholesale price.




CHAPTER X.

COIN DEPARTMENT.


Complete and standard list of American silver and copper coins which
command a premium:


UNITED STATES SILVER DOLLARS.

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1794]

1794 Flowing Hair                         $ 20 00
1794 Flowing Hair, Fine                     30 00
1795 Flowing Hair                            1 25
1796 Fillet Head                             1 25
1796 Fillet Head                             1 60
1797 Fillet Head, 6 Stars Facing             1 60
1797 Fillet Head, 7 Stars Facing             1 60
1798 Fillet Head, 13 Stars, Small Eagle      1 50
1798 Fillet Head, 15 Stars, Small Eagle      2 00
1798 13 Stars, Large Eagle                   1 10
1799 5 Stars Facing                          1 40
1799 6  "     "                              1 10
1800 Spread Eagle                            1 15
1801 Spread Eagle                            1 30
1802 Spread Eagle                            1 30
1802 over 1801, Spread Eagle                 1 35
1803 Spread Eagle                            1 35


1804 DOLLAR.

[Illustration: Obverse]

[Illustration: Reverse]

1804 Excessively Rare                     $500 00
1840 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1841 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1844 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1845 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1848 Liberty Seated                          1 15
1849 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1851 Liberty Seated                         23 00
1852 Liberty Seated                         23 00
1853 Liberty Seated                          1 10
1854 Liberty Seated                          2 50
1855 Liberty Seated                          1 60
1856 Liberty Seated                          1 50
1857 Liberty Seated                          1 50
1858 Liberty Seated                         23 00
1861 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1862 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1863 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1864 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1865 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1866 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1867 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1868 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1869 Liberty Seated                          1 05
1879 Trade Dollar                            1 05
1880 Trade Dollar                            1 05
1881 Trade Dollar                            1 05
1882 Trade Dollar                            1 05
1883 Trade Dollar                            1 05
1884 Trade Dollar                            1 05


UNITED STATES PATTERN DOLLARS.

[Illustration: 1836]

1836 C. Gobrecht's Name in Field          $  9 00
1836 Flying Eagle                            4 00
1838 Flying Eagle                           17 00
1839 Flying Eagle                           13 50


HALF DOLLARS.

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1794]

1794 Flowing Hair, Fair                   $  2 00
1794 Flowing Hair, Good                      3 00
1795 Flowing Hair                              60
1796 Fillet Head, 15 Stars                  17 50
1796 Fillet Head, 16 Stars                  20 00
1797 Fillet Head, 15 Stars                  18 00
1801 Fillet Head                             2 00
1802 Fillet Head                             2 00
1803 Fillet Head                               55
1804 Fillet Head                             7 50
1805 Fillet Head                               55
1805 over 1804, Fillet Head                    60
1806 Fillet Head, if Extra Fine                55
1807 Fillet Head, if Extra Fine                55
1807 Head to Left, if Extra Fine               55
1815 Head to Left, Fair                      1 50
1815 Head to Left, Good                      2 00
1815 Head to Left, Fine                      2 50
1820 over 1819                                 55
1836 Liberty Cap, Milled Edge                1 50
1836 Liberty Cap, Milled Edge, Fine          1 75
1838 Liberty Cap                            12 00

(Having "O" mark underneath bust, and meaning New Orleans Mint, under
head like above cut. Ordinary 1838 half dollars without this mint mark
are not wanted.)

1851 Liberty Seated                       $    55
1851 Liberty Seated, Fine                      65
1852 Liberty Seated, Fair                    1 40
1852 Liberty Seated, Good                    1 75
1852 Liberty Seated, Fine                    2 00
1879 Liberty Seated, Fine                      55


QUARTER DOLLARS.

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1796]

1796 Fillet Head, Fair                    $  1 50
1796 Fillet Head, Good                       2 00
1804 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 50
1804 Fillet Head, Good                       2 00
1805 Fillet Head, Good                         30
1806 Fillet Head, Good                         30
1807 Head to Left                              30
1815 Head to Left, Fine                        35
1818 Head to Left, Fine                        30
1819 Head to Left, Fine                        30
1820 Head to Left, Fine                        30
1821 Head to Left, Fine                        30
1822 Head to Left, Fine                        30
1823 Head to Left, Fair                     16 00
1823 Head to Left, Good                     21 00
1824 Head to Left, Fair                        35
1824 Head to Left, Good                        60
1824 Head to Left, Fine                      1 00
1827 Head to Left, Fair                     17 50
1827 Head to Left, Good                     22 00
1853 (without Arrows and Rays)               2 50


TWENTY CENT PIECES.

1876                                      $    25
1877                                         1 75
1878                                         1 75

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1796]

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA]


DIMES.

1796 Fillet Head, Fair                    $    75
1796 Fillet Head, Good                       1 50
1797 13 Stars, Fair                          1 10
1797 13 Stars, Good                          2 00
1797 16 Stars,  Fair                         1 25
1796 16 Stars, Good                          2 00
1798 Fillet Head, Fair                         90
1798 Fillet Head, Good                       1 75
1800 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 00
1800 Fillet Head, Good                       1 75
1801 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 00
1801 Fillet Head, Good                       1 75
1802 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 25
1802 Fillet Head, Good                       2 00
1803 Fillet Head, Fair                         75
1803 Fillet Head, Good                       1 25
1804 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 25
1804 Filled Head, Good                       2 22
1805 Filled Head, Good                         20
1807 Filled Head, Good                         25
1809 Head to Left, Fair                        20
1809 Head to Left, Good                        50
1809 Head to Left, Fine                        75
1811 Head to Left, Fair                        25
1811 Head to Left, Good                        50
1811 Head to Left, Fine                        75
1814 Head to Left, Fine                        15
1820 Head to Left, Fine                        15
1821 Head to Left, Small Date, Fine            15
1822 Head to Left, Fair                        50
1822 Head to Left, Good                        75
1822 Head to Left, Fine                      1 00
1824 Head to Left, Fine                        15
1828 Head to Left, Fine                        15

[Illustration: 1846]

[Illustration: ONE DIME]

1846 Liberty Seated                       $    25

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1794]

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA]


HALF DIMES.

1794 Flowing Hair, Fair                   $  1 10
1794 Flowing Hair, Good                      2 00
1794 Flowing Hair, Fine                      3 00
1795 Flowing Hair, Fair                        30
1795 Flowing Hair, Good                        60
1796 15 Stars, Fillet Head, Fair             1 50
1796 15 Stars, Fillet Head, Good             2 00
1797 15 Stars, Fillet Head, Fair             1 10
1797 15 Stars, Fillet Head, Good             1 75
1797 16 Stars, Fillet Head, Fair             1 00
1797 16 Stars, Fillet Head, Good             1 75
1800 Fillet Head, Fair                         40
1800 Fillet Head, Good                         75
1801 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 00
1801 Fillet Head, Good                       2 00
1802 Fillet Head, Fair                      20 00
1802 Fillet Head, Good                      40 00
1802 Fillet Head, Fine                      75 00
1803 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 00
1803 Fillet Head, Good                       1 75
1805 Fillet Head, Fair                       1 60
1805 Fillet Head, Good                       2 25
1838 Liberty Seated, without stars, Fair       08
1838 Liberty Seated, without stars, Good       20
1838 Liberty Seated, without stars, Fine       30
1846 Liberty Seated, Fair                      75
1846 Liberty Seated, Good                    1 00
1846 Liberty Seated, Fine                    1 50

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 1873]


SILVER THREE CENT PIECES.

1855 Large Star in Center                 $    10
1863 Large Star in Center                      40
1864 Large Star in Center                      50
1865 Large Star in Center                      30
1866 Large Star in Center                      30
1867 Large Star in Center                      30
1868 Large Star in Center                      30
1869 Large Star in Center                      25
1870 Large Star in Center                      20
1871 Large Star in Center                      20
1872 Large Star in Center                      20
1873 Large Star in Center                      75


NICKEL, FIVE CENT PIECES.

1877                                      $    25

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 1877]


NICKEL, THREE CENT PIECES.

1877                                      $    40


COPPER TWO CENT PIECES.

1872                                      $    05
1873                                           90


COPPER CENTS.

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1793]

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ONE CENT 1/100]

1793 Liberty Cap                          $  1 25
1794                                           15
1795 Liberty Cap                               10
1796 Liberty Cap                               15
1796 Fillet Head                               15
1797 Fillet Head                               08
1798 Fillet Head                               05
1799 Fillet Head                             3 00
1799 Fillet Head                             6 00
1800 Fillet Head                               05
1801 Fillet Head                               05
1804 Fillet Head                             2 00
1804 Fillet Head, Fine                       2 75
1805 Fillet Head                               08
1806 Fillet Head                               06
1807 Fillet Head                               03

[Illustration: 1808]

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ONE CENT]

1808 Head to Left                         $    10
1809 Head to Left                              40
1809 Head to Left, Fine                        75
1810 Head to Left                              05
1811 Head to Left                              25
1812 Head to Left                              03
1813 Head to Left                              15
1814 Head to Left                              05
1817 Head to Left, 15 Stars                    05
1821 Head to Left                              08
1823 Head to Left                              12
1857 Head to Left, Large Date                  06
1857 Head to Left                              06
1857 Head to Left, Small Date                  06

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 1856]


EAGLE NICKEL CENTS.

1856 Fair                                 $    55
1856 Good                                      80
1856 Fine                                    1 10


HALF CENTS.

[Illustration: LIBERTY 1795]

[Illustration: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA HALF CENT]

1793 Liberty Cap                          $  1 00
1794 Liberty Cap                               25
1795 Lettered Edge                             20
1795 Thin Die                                  20
1796 Liberty Cap                             7 50
1797 Liberty Cap                               25
1797 Lettered Edge                             85
1800 Fillet Head                               05
1802 Fillet Head                               60
1803 Fillet Head                               05
1805 Fillet Head                               06
1806 Fillet Head                               06
1807 Fillet Head                               06
1808 Fillet Head                               06
1810 Head to Left                              18
1811 Head to Left                              60
1831 Head to Left                            2 00
1836 Head to Left                            3 00
1840 Head to Left                            1 75
1841 Head to Left                            1 75
1842 Head to Left                            2 50
1843 Head to Left                            3 00
1844 Head to Left                            2 00
1845 Head to Left                            1 75
1846 Head to Left                            1 75
1847 Head to Left                            2 50
1848 Head to Left                            3 00
1849 Head to Left, Small Date                3 00
1849 Head to Left, Large Date                  06
1850 Head to Left                              05
1852 Head to Left                            2 50
1854 Head to Left                              05
1856 Head to Left                              15
1857 Head to Left                              08


AMERICAN SILVER AND COPPER COINS NOT ISSUED BY THE UNITED STATES MINT.

SILVER COINAGE.

DOLLARS.--First coinage, 1794; none issued 1805 to 1835, inclusive, and
1837.

HALF-DOLLARS.--First coinage, 1794; none issued 1798, 1799, 1816.

QUARTER-DOLLARS.--First coinage, 1796; none issued 1794, 1795, 1797 to
1804, 1808 to 1814, inclusive, 1816, 1817, 1826, 1829, 1830.

DIMES.--First coinage, 1796; none issued 1794, 1795, 1799, 1806, 1808,
1810, 1812, 1813, 1815 to 1819, inclusive, 1826.

HALF-DIMES.--First coinage, 1794; none issued 1798, 1799, 1801, 1806 to
1828, inclusive. The coinage of half-dimes was discontinued in 1873 by
Act of Congress.

THREE-CENT PIECES (SILVER).--First coinage, 1851; and then the dates
follow in succession until 1873, when the coinage of them was
discontinued.


COPPER CENTS.

COPPER CENTS.--First coinage, 1793, none issued 1815; they then follow
to 1857, when the coinage was changed to nickel. The nickel cent of
1856 was only a pattern, which continued during this year up to 1864,
inclusive. The bronze cent was introduced in this year. In 1865 the
nickel cent was discontinued, and up to date the bronze cents are
issued.

HALF-CENTS.--First coinage, 1793; none issued 1798, 1799, 1801, 1812 to
1824, inclusive; 1827, 1837, 1838, 1839; in 1857 the issue of
half-cents was discontinued.

In 1864 the two-cent piece in bronze was introduced, and discontinued
in 1873, by Act of Congress.

In 1865 the three-cent nickel piece was first issued.

In 1866 the five-cent piece was first issued; a very few were struck in
1865 as pattern. In 1883 the die was changed to that of the current
issue with liberty head. Although upwards of five million coins of the
1883 nickels without the words "cents" were issued, they will in the
course of a few years command a premium. At present they are still
quite common.




LOISETTE'S SYSTEM OF MEMORY.


So much has been said about Loisette's memory system, the art has been
so widely advertised, and so carefully guarded from all the profane who
do not send five or many dollars to the professor, that a few pages
showing how every man may be his own Loisette, may be both interesting
and valuable.

In the first place, the system is a good one, and well worth the labor
of mastering, and if the directions are implicitly followed there can
be no doubt that the memory will be greatly strengthened and improved,
and that mnemonic feats, otherwise impossible, may be easily performed.
Loisette, however, is not an inventor, but an introducer. He stands in
the same relation to Dr. Pick that the retail dealer holds to the
manufacturer; the one produced the article; the other brings it to the
public. Even this statement is not quite fair to Loisette, for he has
brought much practical common sense to bear upon Pick's system, and in
preparing the new art of mnemonics for the market, in many ways he has
made it his own.

If each man would reflect upon the method by which he himself remembers
things, he would find his hand upon the key of the whole mystery. For
instance, the author was once trying to remember the word _blythe_.
There occurred to my mind the words "Bellman," "Belle," and then the
verse

    --the peasant upward climbing
    Hears the bells of _Buloss_ chiming.

"Barcarole," "Barrack," and so on, until the word "blythe" presented
itself with a strange insistence, long after I had ceased trying to
recall it.

On another occasion, when trying to recall the name "Richardson," I got
the words "hay-rick," "Robertson," "Randallstown," and finally "wealthy,"
from which naturally I got "rich" and "Richardson" almost in a breath.

Still another example: trying to recall the name of an old schoolmate,
"Grady," I got "Brady," "grave," "gaseous," "gastronome," "gracious,"
and I finally abandoned the attempt, simply saying to myself that it
began with a "G," and there was an "a" sound after it. The next
morning, when thinking of something entirely different, this name
"Grady" came up in my mind with as much distinctness as though some one
had whispered it in my ear. This remembering was done without any
conscious effort on my part, and was evidently the result of the
exertion made the day before, when mnemonic processes were put to work.
Every reader must have had similar experience, which he can recall, and
which will fall in line with the examples given.

It follows, then, that when we endeavor, without the aid of any system,
to recall a forgotten fact or name, our memory presents to us words of
a similar sound or meaning in its journey toward the goal to which we
have started it. This goes to show that our ideas are arranged in
groups in whatever secret cavity or recess of the brain they occupy,
and that the arrangement is one not alphabetical exactly and not
entirely by meaning, but after some fashion partaking of both.

If you are looking for the word "meadow" you may reach "middle" before
you come to it, or "Mexico," or many words beginning with the "m"
sound, or containing the "dow," as "window" or "dough," or you may get
"field" or "farm"--but you are on the right track, and if you do not
interfere with your intellectual process you will finally come to the
idea which you are seeking.

How often have you heard people say: "I forget his name; it is
something like Beadle or Beagle--at any rate it begins with a B." Each
and all of these were unconscious Loisettians, and they were practicing
blindly, and without proper method or direction, the excellent system
which he teaches. The thing, then, to do--and it is the final and
simple truth which Loisette teaches--is to travel over this ground in
the other direction--to cement the fact which you wish to remember to
some other fact or word which you know will be brought out by the
implied conditions--and thus you will always be able to travel from
your given starting point to the thing which you wish to call to mind.

[Illustration: _a_ _b_ _c_ _d_ _e_]

To illustrate: let the broken line in the annexed diagram represent a
train of thought. If we connect the idea "_a_" with "_e_" through the
steps _b_, _c_ and _d_, the tendency of the mind ever afterward will be
to get to _e_ from _a_ that way, or from any of the intermediates that
way. It seems as though a channel were cut in our mindstuff along which
the memory flows. How to make it flow this way will be seen later on.
Loisette, in common with all mnemonic teachers, uses the old devise of
representing numbers by letter--and as this is the first and easiest
step in the art, this seems to be the most logical place to introduce
the accepted equivalents of the Arabic numerals:

0 is always represented by _s_, _z_ or _c_ soft.

1 is always represented by _t_, _th_ or _d_.

2 is always represented by _n_.

3 is always represented by _m_.

4 is always represented by _r_.

5 is always represented by _l_.

6 is always represented by _sh, j, ch_ soft or _g_ soft.

7 is always represented by _g_ hard, _kc_ hard, _q_ or final _ng_.

8 is always represented by _f_ or _v_.

9 is always represented by _p_ or _b_.

All the other letters are used simply to fill up. Double letters in a
word count only as one. In fact, the system goes by sound, not by
spelling--for instance, "this" or "dizzy" would stand for _ten_;
"catch" or "gush" would stand for 76, and the only difficulty is to
make some word or phrase which will contain only the significant
letters in the proper order, filled out with non-significants into some
guise of meaning or intelligibility.[2] Suppose you wish to get some
phrase or word that would express the number 3,685, you arrange the
letters this way:

+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|     |  3  |  ^  |  6   |  ^  |  8  |  ^  |  5  |
+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+
|  a  |  m  |  a  |  sh  |  a  |  f  |  a  |  l  |
|  e  |     |  e  |  j   |  e  |  v  |  e  |     |
|  i  |     |  i  |  ch  |  i  |     |  i  |     |
|  o  |     |  o  |  g   |  o  |     |  o  |     |
|  u  |     |  u  |      |  u  |     |  u  |     |
|  h  |     |  h  |      |  h  |     |  h  |     |
|  w  |     |  w  |      |  w  |     |  w  |     |
|  x  |     |  x  |      |  x  |     |  x  |     |
|  y  |     |  y  |      |  y  |     |  y  |     |
+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+

You can make out "image of law," "my shuffle," "matchville," etc.,
etc., as far as you like to work it out.

      [2] You can remember the equivalents by noting the fact that _z_
      is the first letter of "zero" and _c_ of "cipher;" _t_ has but
      one stroke, _n_ has two, _m_ has three. The script _f_ is very
      like 8, the script _p_ like 9; _r_ is the last letter of four,
      _l_ is the Roman numeral for _fifty_, which suggests _five_. The
      others may be retained as memorizing these two nonsense lines:

          Six _shy_ _J_ewesses c_h_ase _G_eorge
            Seven great _k_ings _c_ame _q_uarreli_ng_.

Now, suppose you wish to memorize the fact that $1,000,000 in gold
weighs 3,685 pounds, you go about it in this way, and here is the
kernel and crux of Loisette's system:

"How much does $1,000,000 in gold weigh?"

"Weigh--scales."

"Scales--statue of Justice."

"Statue of Justice--_image of law_."

The process is simplicity itself. The thing you wish to recall, and
that you fear to forget, is the weight; consequently you cement your
chain of suggestion to the idea which is most prominent to your mental
question. What do you weigh with? Scales. What does the mental picture
of scales suggest? The statue of Justice, blindfolded and weighing out
award and punishment to man. Finally, what is this statue of Justice
but the image of law? And the words "image of law," translated back
from the significant letters _m_, _g_ soft, _f_ and _l_, give you
3--6--8--5, the number of pounds in $1,000,000 in gold. You bind
together in your mind each separate step in the journey, the one
suggests the other, and you will find a year from now that the fact
will be as fresh in your memory as it is to-day. You cannot lose it. It
is chained to you by an unbreakable mnemonic tie. Mark, that it is not
claimed that "weight" will of itself suggest "scales" and "scales"
"statue of Justice," etc., but that, once having passed your attention
up and down the ladder of ideas, your mental tendency will be to take
the same route, and get to the same goal again and again. Indeed,
beginning with the weight of $1,000,000, "image of law" will turn up in
your mind without your consciousness of any intermediate station on the
way, after some iteration and reiteration of the original chain.

Again, so as to fasten the process in the reader's mind even more
firmly, suppose that it were desired to fix the date of the battle of
Hastings (A.D. 1066) in the memory; 1066 may be represented by the
words "the wise judge" (_th_ equals 1, _s_ equals 0, _j_ equals 6, _dg_
equals 6; the others are non-significants); a chain might be made thus:

Battle of Hastings--arbitrament of war.

Arbitrament of war--arbitration.

Arbitration--judgment.

Judgment--the wise judge.

Make mental pictures, connect ideas, repeat words and sounds, go about
it in any way you please, so that you will form a mental habit of
connecting the "battle of Hastings" with the idea of "arbitrament of
war," and so on for the other links in the chain, and the work is done.

Loisette makes the beginning of his system unnecessarily difficult, to
say nothing of his illogical arrangement in the grammar of the art of
memory, which he makes the first of his lessons. He analyzes suggestion
thus:

1. Inclusion.      2. Exclusion.      3. Concurrence.

All of which looks very scientific and orderly, but is really
misleading and badly named. The truth is that one idea will suggest
another.

1. By likeness or opposition of meaning, as "house" suggests "room" or
"door," etc., or "white" suggests "blacks," "cruel," "kind," etc.

2. By likeness of sound, as "harrow" and "barrow;" "Henry" and
"Hennepin."

3. By mental juxtaposition, a peculiarity different in each person and
depending upon each one's own experiences. Thus "St. Charles" suggests
"railway bridge" to me, because I was vividly impressed by the breaking
of the Wabash bridge at that point. "Stable" and "broken leg" come near
each other in my experience, so do "cow" and "shot-gun" and "licking."

Out of these three sorts of suggestions it is possible to get from any
one fact to any other in a chain certain and safe, along which the mind
may be depended upon afterward always to follow.

The chain is, of course, by no means all. Its making and its binding
must be accompanied by a vivid, methodically directed attention, which
turns all the mental light gettable in a focus upon the subject passing
across the mind's screen. Before Loisette was thought of this was
known. In the old times in England, in order to impress upon the minds
of the rising generation the parish boundaries in the rural districts,
the boys were taken to each of the landmarks in succession, the
position and bearings of each pointed out carefully, and, in order to
deepen the impression, the young people were then and there vigorously
thrashed, a mechanical method of attracting the attention which was
said never to have failed. This system has had its supporters in many
of the old-fashioned schools, and there are men who will read these
lines who can recall, with an itching sense of vivid expression, the
144 lickings which were said to go with the multiplication table.

In default of a thrashing, however, the student must cultivate as best
he can an intense fixity of perception upon every fact or word or date
that he wishes to make permanently his own. It is easy. It is a matter
of habit. If you will you can photograph an idea upon your cerebral
gelatine so that neither years nor events will blot it out or overlay
it. You must be clearly and distinctly aware of the thing you are
putting into your mental treasure-house, and drastically certain of the
cord by which you have tied it to some other thing of which you are
sure. Unless it is worth your while to do this, you might as well
abandon any hopes of mnemonic improvement, which will not come without
the hardest kind of hard work, although it is work that will grow
constantly easier with practice and reiteration.

You need, then:

    1. Methodic suggestion.
    2. Methodic attention.
    3. Methodic reiteration.

And this is all there is to Loisette, and a great deal it is. Two of
them will not do without the third. You do not know how many steps
there are from your hall-door to your bed-room, though you have
attended to and often reiterated the journey. But if there are twenty
of them, and you have once bound the word "nice," or "nose," or "news,"
or "hyenas," to the fact of the stairway, you could never forget it.

The Professor makes a point, and very wisely, of the importance of
working through some established chain, so that the whole may be
carried away in the mind--not alone for the value of the facts so bound
together, but for the mental discipline so afforded.

Here, then, is the "President Series," which contains the name and the
date of inauguration of each President from Washington to Cleveland.
The manner in which it is to be mastered is this: Beginning at the top,
try to find in your mind some connection between each word and the one
following it. See how you can at some future time make one suggest the
next, either by suggestion of sound or sense, or by mental
juxtaposition. When you have found this dwell on it attentively for a
moment or two. Pass it backward and forward before you, and then go on
to the next step.

The chain runs thus, the names of the Presidents being in small caps,
the date word in italics:

President          Chosen as the first word as the one most apt to occur
                     to the mind of any one wishing to repeat the names
                     of the Presidents.
Dentist            Presi_dent_ and _dent_ist.
Draw               What does  a dentist  do?
_To give up_       When something is drawn from one it is given up.
                   This is a date phrase meaning 1789.
Self-sacrifice     There is an association of thought between giving
                     and self-sacrifice.
WASHINGTON         Associate the quality of self-sacrifice with
                     Washington's character.
Morning wash       _Wash_ington and _wash_.
Dew                Early witness and dew.
Flower beds        Dew and flowers.
_Took a bouquet_   Flowers and bouquet. Date phrase (1707.)
Garden             Bouquet and garden.
Eden               The first garden.
Adam               Juxtaposition of thought.
ADAMS              Suggestion by sound.
Fall               Juxtaposition by thought.
Failure            Fall and  failure.
_Deficit_          Upon a failure there is usually a deficit. Date
                     word (1801.)
Debt               The consequence of a deficit.
Bonds              Debt and bonds.
Confederate bonds  Suggestion by meaning.
Jefferson Davis    Juxtaposition of thought.
JEFFERSON.

Now, follow out the rest for yourself, taking about ten at a time, and
binding those you do last to those you have done before each time,
before attacking the next bunch.

          1           |        2           |         3
----------------------+--------------------+------------------
JEFFERSON             | _the fraud_        | _the heavy shell_
Judge Jeffreys        | painted clay       | mollusk
bloody assize         | baked clay         | unfamiliar word
bereavement           | tiles              | dictionary
_too heavy a sob_     | TYLER              | Johnson's
parental grief        | Wat Tyler          | JOHNSON
mad son               | poll tax           | son
MADISON               | compulsory         | bad son
Madeira               | _free will_        | dishonest boy
first-rate wine       | free offering      | _thievish boy_
frustrating           | burnt offering     | take
_defeating_           | poker              | give
feet                  | POLK               | GRANT
toe the line          | end of dance       | award
row                   | termination "ly"   | school premium
MUNROE                | _adverb_           | examination
row                   | part of speech     | cramming
boat                  | part of a man      | _fagging_
steamer               | TAYLOR             | laborer
_the funnel_          | measurer           | hay field
windpipe              | theodolite         | HAYES
throat                | _Theophilus_       | hazy
quinzy                | fill us            | clear
QUINZY ADAMS          | FILLMORE           | _vivid_
quince                | more fuel          | brightly lighted
fine fruit            | _the flame_        | camp fire
_the fine boy_        | flambeau           | war field
sailor boy            | bow                | GARFIELD
sailor                | arrow              | Guiteau
jack tar              | PIERCE             | murderer
JACKSON               | hurt               | prisoner
stone wall            | _feeling_          | prison fare
indomitable           | wound              | _half fed_
_tough make_          | soldier            | well fed
oaken furniture       | cannon             | well read
bureau                | BUCHANAN           | author
VAN BUREN             | rebuke             | ARTHUR
rent                  | official censure   | round table
side-splitting        | _to officiate_     | tea table
_divert_              | wedding            | tea cup
annoy                 | linked             | _half full_
harrassing            | LINCOLN            | divide
HARRISON              | link               | cleave
Old Harry             | stroll             | CLEVELAND
the tempter           | sea shore          |
----------------------+--------------------+------------------

It will be noted that some of the date words, as "free will," only give
three figures of the date, 845; but it is to be supposed that if the
student knows that many figures in the date of Polk's inauguration he
can guess the other one.

The curious thing about this system will now become apparent. If the
reader has learned the series so that he can say it down from first
President to Cleveland, he can with no effort, and without any further
preparation, say it _backward_, from Cleveland up to the commencement.
There could be no better proof that this is the natural mnemonic
system. It proves itself by its works.

-------------------+------------------+-------------
                   |  0--hoes         |
-------------------+------------------+-------------
  1--wheat         |34--mare          |67--jockey
  2--hen           |35--mill          |68--shave
  3--home          |36--image         |69--ship
  4--hair          |37--mug           |70--eggs
  5--oil           |38--muff          |71--gate
  6--shoe          |39--mob           |72--gun
  7--hook          |40--race          |73--comb
  8--off           |41--hart          |74--hawker
  9--bee           |42--horn          |75--coal
 10--daisy         |43--army          |76--cage
 11--tooth         |44--warrior       |77--cake
 12--dine          |45--royal         |78--coffee
 13--time          |46--arch          |79--cube
 14--tower         |47--rock          |80--vase
 15--dell          |48--wharf         |81--feet
 16--ditch         |49--rope          |82--vein
 17--duck          |50--wheels        |83--fame
 18--dove          |51--lad           |84--fire
 19--tabby         |52--lion          |85--vial
 20--hyenas        |53--lamb          |86--fish
 21--hand          |54--lair          |87--fig
 22--nun           |55--lily          |88--fife
 23--name          |56--lodge         |89--fib
 24--owner         |57--lake          |90--pies
 25--nail          |58--leaf          |91--putty
 26--hinge         |59--elbow         |92--pane
 27--ink           |60--chess         |93--bomb
 28--knife         |61--cheat         |94--bier
 29--knob          |62--chain         |95--bell
 30--muse          |63--sham          |96--peach
 31--mayday        |64--chair         |97--book
 32--hymen         |65--jail          |98--beef
 33--mama          |66--judge         |99--pope
                   |------------------|
                   |  100--diocese    |
-------------------+------------------+-----------

The series should be repeated backward and forward every day for a
month, and should be supplemented by a series of the reader's own
making, and by this one, which gives the numbers from 0 to 100, and
which must be chained together before they can be learned.

By the use of this table, which should be committed as thoroughly as
the President series, so that it can be repeated backwards and
forwards, any date, figure or number can be at once constructed, and
bound by the usual chain to the fact which you wish it to accompany.

When the student wishes to go farther and attack larger problems than
the simple binding of two facts together, there is little in Loisette's
system that is new, although there is much that is good. If it is a
book that is to be learned, as one would prepare for an examination,
each chapter is to be considered separately. Of each a _precis_ is
to be written in which the writer must exercise all of his ingenuity to
reduce the matter in hand to its final skeleton of fact. This he is to
commit to memory both by the use of the chain and the old system of
interrogation. Suppose after much labor through a wide space of
language one boils a chapter to an event down to the final irreducible
sediment: "Magna Charta was exacted by the barons from King John at
Runnymede."

You must now turn this statement this way and that way, asking yourself
about it every possible and impossible question, gravely considering
the answers, and, if you find any part of it especially difficult to
remember, chaining it to the question which will bring it out. Thus,
"What was exacted by the barons from King John at Runnymede?" "Magna
Charta." "By whom was Magna Charta exacted from King John at Runnymede?"
"By the barons." "From whom was," etc., etc.? "King John." "From
what king," etc., etc.? "King John." "Where was Magna Charta," etc.,
etc.? "At Runnymede."

And so on and so on, as long as your ingenuity can suggest questions to
ask, or points of view from which to consider the statement. Your mind
will be finally saturated with the information and prepared to spill it
out at the first squeeze of the examiner. This, however, is not new. It
was taught in the schools hundreds of years before Loisette was born.
Old newspaper men will recall in connection with it Horace Greeley's
statement that the test of a news item was the clear and satisfactory
manner in which a report answered the interrogatories, "What?" "When?"
"Where?" "Who?" "Why?"

In the same way Loisette advises the learning of poetry, _e.g._,

    "The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold."

"Who came down?"

"How did the Assyrian come down?"

"Like what animal did?" etc.

And so on and so on, until the verses are exhausted of every scrap of
information to be had out of them by the most assiduous cross-examination.

Whatever the reader may think of the availability or value of this part
of the system, there are so many easily applicable tests of the worth
of much that Loisette has done, that it may be taken with the rest.

Few people, to give an easy example, can remember the value of +-- the
ratio between the circumference and the diameter of the circle--beyond
four places of decimals, or at most six--3,141,592+. Here is the value
to 108 decimal places:

3. 14159265·3589793238·4626433832·7950288419·7169399375·1058209749·
4459230781·6406286208·9986280348·2534211706·79 82148086

By a very simple application of the numerical letter values these 108
decimal places can be carried in the mind and recalled about as fast as
you can write them down. All that is to be done is to memorize these
nonsense lines:

    Mother Day will buy any shawl.
    My love pick up my new muff.
    A Russian jeer may move a woman.
    Cables enough for Utopia.
    Get a cheap ham pie by my cooley.
    The slave knows a bigger ape.
    I rarely hop on my sick foot.
    Cheer a sage in a fashion safe.
    A baby fish now views my wharf.
    Annually Mary Ann did kiss a jay.
    A cabby found a rough savage.

Now translate each significant into its proper value and you have the
task accomplished. "Mother Day," _m_ equals 3, _th_ equals 1, _r_
equals 4, _d_ equals 1, and so on. Learn the lines one at a time by the
method of interrogatories. "Who will buy any shawl?" "Which Mrs. Day
will buy a shawl?" "Is Mother Day particular about the sort of shawl
she will buy?" "Has she bought a shawl?" etc., etc. Then cement the end
of each line to the beginning of the next one, thus, "Shawl"--"warm
garment"--"warmth"--"love"--"my love," and go on as before. Stupid as
the work may seem to you, you can memorize the figures in fifteen
minutes this way so that you will not forget them in fifteen years.
Similarly you can take Haydn's Dictionary of Dates and turn fact after
fact into nonsense lines like these which you cannot lose.

And this ought to be enough to show anybody the whole art. If you look
back across the sands of time and find out that it is that ridiculous
old "Thirty days hath September," which comes to you when you are
trying to think of the length of October--if you can quote your old
prosody,

    "O datur ambiguis," etc.

with much more certainty than you can serve up your Horace; if in fine,
jingles and alliterations, wise and otherwise, have stayed with you,
while solid and serviceable information has faded away, you may be
certain that here is the key to the enigma of memory.

You can apply it yourself in a hundred ways. If you wish to clinch in
your mind the fact that Mr. Love lives at 485 Dearborn Street, what is
more easy than to turn 485 into the words "rifle" and chain the ideas
together, say thus: "Love--happiness--good time--picnic--forest--wood
rangers--range--rifle range--_rifle_--fine weapon--costly weapon--dearly
bought--DEARBORN."

Or if you wish to remember Mr. Bowman's name, and you notice he has a
mole on his face which is apt to attract your attention when you next
see him, cement the ideas thus: "Mole, mark, target, archer, Bowman."




FACTS WORTH KNOWING.

HANDY FACTS TO SETTLE MANY ARGUMENTS


London plague in 1665.

Telephone invented 1861.

There are 2,750 languages.

Two persons die every second.

Sound moves 743 miles per hour.

Chinese invented paper 170 B.C.

A square mile contains 640 acres.

A barrel of pork weighs 200 pounds.

Hawks can fly 150 miles in one hour.

Watches were first constructed in 1476.

Chinese in United States in 1880, 105,613.

Rome was founded by Romulus, 752 B.C.

Gold was discovered in California in 1848.

Phonograph invented by T. A. Edison, 1877.

The first balloon ascended from Lyons, France, 1783.

The first fire insurance office in America, Boston, 1724.

Jet is found along the coast of Yorkshire, Eng., near Whitby.

Napoleon I. crowned emperor 1804; died at St. Helena, 1820.

Electric light invented by Lodyguin and Kossloff, at London, 1874.

Harvard is the oldest college in the United States: established 1638.

War declared with Great Britain, June 19, 1812; peace Feb. 18, 1815.

Until 1776 cotton spinning was performed by the hand spinning-wheel.

Measure 209 feet on each side and you will have a square acre within an
inch.

Postage stamps first came into use in England in the year 1840; in the
United States in 1847.

The highest range of mountains are the Himalayas, the mean elevation
being from 16,000 to 18,000 feet.

Envelopes were first used in 1839.

Telescopes were invented in 1590.

Iron horseshoes were made in 481.

A barrel of flour weighs 196 pounds.

A hand (horse measure) is four inches.

A rifle ball moves 1,000 miles per hour.

First steamer crossed the Atlantic, 1819.

Assassination of Lincoln, April 14, 1865.

German empire re-established, Jan. 18, 1871.

Storm clouds move thirty-six miles an hour.

First subscription library, Philadelphia, 1731.

Dark Ages, from the 6th to the 14th century.

The Latin tongue became obsolete about 580.

The great London fire occurred Sept. 26, 1666.

The value of a ton of pure gold is $602,799.21.

Ether was first used for surgical purposes in 1844.

Ignatius Loyola founded the order of Jesuits, 1541.

First authentic use of organs, 755; in England, 951.

The first newspaper advertisement appeared in 1652.

Cork is the bark taken from a species of the oak tree.

Benjamin Franklin used the first lightning rods, 1752.

Glass windows (colored) were used in the 8th century.

Authentic history of China commenced 3,000 years B.C.

Introduction of homoepathy into the United States, 1825.

Spectacles were invented by an Italian in the 13th century.

Medicine was introduced into Rome from Greece, 200 B.C.

First electric telegraph, Paddington to Brayton, Eng., 1835.

The Chaldeans were the first people who worked in metals.

First life insurance, in London, 1772; in America, Philadelphia, 1812.

Egyptian pottery is the oldest known; dates from 2,000 B.C.

Julius Cæsar invaded Britain, 55 B.C.; assassinated, 44 B.C.

Soap was first manufactured in England in the 16th century.

The largest free territorial government is the United States.

First photographs produced in England, 1802; perfected, 1841.

First marine insurance, A.D. 533; England, 1598; America, 1721.

Professor Oersted, Copenhagen, discovered electro-magnetism, in 1819.

First American express, New York to Boston--W. F. Harnden.

Glass windows were first introduced into England in the 8th century.

Chicago is little more than fifty years old, and is the eighteenth city
of the world.

Glass was made in Egypt, 3000 B.C.; earliest date of transparent
glass, 719 B.C.

First public schools in America were established in the New England
States about 1642.

The largest inland sea is the Caspian, between Europe and Asia, being
700 miles long and 270 miles wide.

The term "Almighty Dollar" originated with Washington Irving, as a
satire on the American love for gain.

The highest natural bridge in the world is at Rockbridge, Virginia,
being 200 feet high to the bottom of the arch.

The largest circulation of paper money is that of the United States,
being 700 millions, while Russia has 670 millions.

The largest insurance company in the world is the Mutual Life of New
York City, having cash assets of $108,000,000.

The largest empire in the world is that of Great Britain, being
8,557,658 square miles, and more than a sixth part of the globe.

The first electrical signal ever transmitted between Europe and America
passed over the Field submarine cable on Aug. 5, 1858.

The longest tunnel in the world is St. Gothard, on the line of the
railroad between Luzerne and Milan, being nine and one-half miles in
length.

The loftiest active volcano is Popocatapetl. It is 17,784 feet high,
and has a crater three miles in circumference and 1,000 feet deep.

Burnt brick was known to have been used in building the Tower of Babel.
They were introduced into England by the Romans.

The most remarkable echo known is that in the castle of Simonetta, two
miles from Milan. It repeats the echo of a pistol sixty times.

The largest volcano in the world is Etna. Its base is 90 miles in
circumference; its cone 11,000 feet high. Its first eruption occurred
474 B.C.

The largest tree in the world, as yet discovered, is in Tulare County,
California. It is 275 feet high and 106 feet in circumference at its
base.

The largest desert is Sahara, in Northern Africa. Its length is 3,000
miles and breadth 900 miles; having an area of 2,000,000 square miles.

The largest suspension bridge is in Brooklyn. The length of the main
span is 1,595 feet 6 inches. The entire length of the bridge is 5,989
feet.

The first deaf and dumb asylum was founded in England by Thomas
Braidwood, 1760; and the first in the United States was at Hartford,
1817.

The largest diamond in the world is the Braganza, being a part of the
Portuguese jewels. It weighs 1,880 carats. It was found in Brazil in
1741.

The grade of titles in Great Britain stands in the following order from
the highest: A Prince, Duke, Marquis, Earl, Viscount, Baron, Baronet,
Knight.

The largest number of cattle ever received in one year was that of
Chicago in the year 1884, being 1,874,984 beeves, 30,223 calves,
5,640,625 hogs, 749,917 sheep and 15,625 horses. It required 9,000
trains of 31 cars each, which, if coupled together, would reach 2,146
miles.

The "Valley of Death," in the island of Java, is simply the crater of
an extinct volcano, filled with carbonic-acid gas. It is half a mile in
circumference.

The city of Amsterdam, Holland, is built upon piles driven into the
ground. It is intersected by numerous canals, crossed by nearly three
hundred bridges.

Coal was used as fuel in England as early as 852, and in 1234 the first
charter to dig for it was granted by Henry III. to the inhabitants of
Newcastle-on-Tyne.

Tobacco was discovered in San Domingo in 1496; afterwards by the
Spaniards in Yucatan in 1520. It was introduced in France in 1560, and
into England in 1583.

The present national colors of the United States were not adopted by
Congress until 1777. The flag was first used by Washington at
Cambridge, January 1, 1776.

Paris was known as Lutetia until 1184, when the name of the great
French capital was changed to that which it has borne ever since.

The longest span of wire in the world is used for a telegraph in India
over the river Ristuah. It is over 6,000 feet, and is stretched between
two hills 1,200 feet high.

The largest library in the world is in Paris, founded by Louis XIV. It
contains 1,400,000 volumes, 175,000 manuscripts, 300,000 maps and
charts, and 150,000 coins and medals.

The tallest man was John Hale, of Lancashire, England, who was nine
feet six inches in height. His hand was seventeen inches long and eight
and one-half inches broad.

In round numbers, the weight of $1,000,000 in standard gold coin is
1-3/4 tons; standard silver coin, 26-3/4 tons; subsidiary silver coin,
25 tons; minor coins, 5-cent nickel, 100 tons.

The largest stationery engine in the world is at the zinc mines at
Friedenville, Pa. The number of gallons of water raised every minute is
17,500. The driving wheels are 35 feet diameter and weigh 40 tons each.
The cylinder is 110 inches in diameter.

The part of United States territory most recently acquired is the
island of San Juan, near Vancouver's Island. It was evacuated by
England at the close of November, 1873.

The highest monument in the world is the Washington monument, being 555
feet. The highest structure of any kind is the Eiffel Tower, Paris,
finished in 1889 and 989 feet high.

It is claimed that crows, eagles, ravens and swans live to be 100 years
old; herons, 59; parrots, 60; pelicans and geese, 50; skylarks, 30;
sparrow hawks, 40; peacocks, canaries and cranes, 24.

The greatest cataract in the world is Niagara, the height of the
American falls being 165 feet. The highest fall of water in the world
is that of the Yosemite in California, being 2,550 feet.

The most ancient catacombs are those of the Theban kings, begun 4,000
years ago. The catacombs of Rome contain the remains of about 6,000,000
human beings; those of Paris, 3,000,000.

The quickest passage ever made across the Atlantic was that of the
steamer Lucania, of the Cunard line, being 5 days 7 hours and 23
minutes from New York to Queenstown; the distance being 2,850 miles.

There has been no irregularity in the recurrence of leap year every
four years since 1800, and will be none until 1900, which will be a
common year, although it will come fourth after the preceding leap
year.

The first English newspaper was the _English Mercury_, issued in the
reign of Queen Elizabeth, and was issued in the shape of a pamphlet.
The _Gazette_ of Venice was the original model of the modern newspaper.

The Mormon Church in Utah shows a membership of 127,294--23,000
families. The church has 12 apostles, 58 patriarchs, 3,885 seventies,
3,153 high priests, 11,000 elders, 1,500 bishops and 4,400 deacons,
being an office for each six persons.

A "monkey wrench" is not so named because it is a handy thing to monkey
with, or for any kindred reason. "Monkey" is not its name at all, but
"Moncky." Charles Moncky, the inventor of it, sold his patent for
$2,000, and invested the money in a house in Williamsburg, King's
County, N.Y., where he now lives.

The Union arch of the Washington Aqueduct is the largest in the world,
being 220 feet; 20 feet in excess of the Chester arch across the Dee in
England, 68 feet longer than that of the London bridge; 92 feet longer
than that at Neuilly on the Seine, and 100 feet longer than that of
Waterloo bridge. The height of the Washington arch is 100 feet.

The largest ship ever built, the Great Eastern, recently broken to
pieces and sold to junk dealers, was designed and constructed by Scott
Russell, at Maxwell, on the Thames. Work on the giant vessel was
commenced in May, 1854. She was successfully launched January 13, 1858.
The launching alone occupied the time from November 3, 1857, until the
date above given. Her total length was 600 feet; breadth, 118 feet;
total weight when launched 12,000 tons. Her first trip of any
consequence was made to New York in 1859-60.

The most extensive mines in the world are those of Freiberg, Saxony.
They were begun in the twelfth century, and in 1835 the galleries,
taken collectively, had reached the unprecedented length of 123 miles.
A new gallery, begun in 1838, had reached a length of eight miles at
the time of the census of 1878. The deepest perpendicular mining shaft
in the world is located at Prizilram, Bohemia. It is a lead mine; it
was begun 1832. January, 1880, it was 3,280 feet deep. The deepest coal
mine in the world is near Tourney, Belgium; it is 3,542 feet in depth,
but, unlike the lead mine mentioned above, it is not perpendicular. The
deepest rock-salt bore in the world is near Berlin, Prussia; it is
4,185 feet deep. The deepest hole ever bored into the earth is the
artesian well at Pottsdam, which is 5,500 feet in depth. The deepest
coal mines in England are the Dunkirk colleries of Lancashire, which
are 2,824 feet in depth. The deepest coal shaft in the United States is
located at Pottsville, Pa. In 1885 it had reached a depth of 1,576
feet. From this great depth 400 cars, holding four tons each, are
hoisted daily. The deepest silver mine in the United States is the
Yellow Jacket, one of the great Comstock system at Virginia City,
Nevada; the lower levels are 2,700 feet below the hoisting works.

FATE OF THE APOSTLES.--The following brief history of the fate of the
Apostles may be new to those whose reading has not been evangelical:

St. Matthew is supposed to have suffered martyrdom or was slain with
the sword at the city of Ethiopia.

St. Mark was dragged through the streets of Alexandria, in Egypt, till
he expired.

St. Luke was hanged upon an olive tree in Greece.

St. John was put into a cauldron of boiling oil at Rome and escaped
death. He afterward died a natural death at Ephesus in Asia.

St. James the Great was beheaded at Jerusalem.

St. James the Less was thrown from a pinnacle or wing of the temple and
then beaten to death with a fuller's club.

St. Philip was hanged up against a pillar at Hieropolis, a city of
Phrygia.

St. Bartholomew was flayed alive by the command of a barbarous king.

St. Andrew was bound to a cross, whence he preached unto the people
until he expired.

St. Thomas was run through the body with a lance at Caromandel, in the
East Indias.

St. Jude was shot to death with arrows.

St. Simon Zealot was crucified in Persia.

St. Matthias was first stoned and then beheaded.

St. Barnabas was stoned to death by Jews at Salania.

St. Paul was beheaded at Rome by the tyrant Nero.

The capital of the United States has been located at different times at
the following places: At Philadelphia from September 5, 1774, until
December, 1776; at Baltimore from December 20, 1776, to March, 1777; at
Philadelphia from March 4, 1777, to September, 1777; at Lancaster, Pa.,
from September 27, 1777, to September 30, 1777; at York, Pa., from
September 30, 1777, to July, 1778; at Philadelphia from July 2, 1778,
to June 30, 1783; at Princeton, N.J., June 30, 1783, to November 20,
1783; Annapolis, Md., November 26, 1783, to November 30, 1784; Trenton,
from November, 1784, to January, 1785; New York from January 11, 1785,
to 1790; then the seat of government was removed to Philadelphia, where
it remained until 1800, since which time it has been in Washington.


THE SINGLE TAX.

This idea was first formulated by Mr. Henry George in 1879, and has
grown steadily in favor. Single tax men assert as a fundamental
principle that all men are equally entitled to the use of the earth;
therefore, no one should be allowed to hold valuable land without
paying to the community the value of the privilege. They hold that this
is the only rightful source of public revenue, and they would therefore
abolish all taxation--local, State and National--except a tax upon the
rental value of land exclusive of its improvements, the revenue thus
raised to be divided among local, State and general governments, as the
revenue from certain direct taxes is now divided between local and
State governments.

The single tax would not fall on all land, but only on valuable land,
and on that in proportion to its value. It would thus be a tax, not on
use or improvements, but on ownership of land, taking what would
otherwise go to the landlord as owner.

In accordance with the principle that all men are equally entitled to
the use of the earth, they would solve the transportation problem by
public ownership and control of all highways, including the roadbeds of
railroads, leaving their use equally free to all.

The single tax system would, they claim, dispense with a hoard of
tax-gatherers, simplify government, and greatly reduce its cost; give
us with all the world that absolute free trade which now exists between
the States of the Union; abolish all taxes on private uses of money;
take the weight of taxation from agricultural districts, where land has
little or no value apart from improvements, and put it upon valuable
land, such as city lots and mineral deposits. It would call upon men to
contribute for public expenses in proportion to the natural
opportunities they monopolize, and make it unprofitable for speculators
to hold land unused, or only partly used, thus opening to labor
unlimited fields of employment, solving the labor problem and
abolishing involuntary poverty.

                     VALUE OF FOREIGN COINS.
               Proclaimed by Law, January 1, 1891.
--------------------+--------------+-----------------+------------
|    COUNTRY.       |   Monetary   |    STANDARD.    | Value in
|                   |    Units     |                 | U.S. Money
--------------------+--------------+-----------------+------------
Argentine Republic  |Peso          |Gold and Silver  |$  .96 5-10
Austria             |Florin        |Silver           |   .38 1-10
Belgium             |Franc         |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
Bolivia             |Boliviano     |Silver           |   .77 1-10
Brazil              |Milreis       |Gold             |   .54 6-10
Canada              |Dollar        |Gold             |  1.00
Chili               |Peso          |Gold and Silver  |   .91 2-10
China               |Tael          |Silver           |  1.27
Cuba                |Peso          |Gold and Silver  |   .92 6-10
Denmark             |Crown         |Gold             |   .26 8-10
Ecuador             |Peso          |Silver           |   .77 1-10
Egypt               |Piaster       |Gold             |   .04 9-10
France              |Franc         |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
Great Britain       |Pound Sterling|Gold             |  4.86 6-100
Greece              |Drachma       |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
German Empire       |Mark          |Gold             |   .23 8-10
Hayti               |Gourde        |Gold and Silver  |   .96 5-10
India               |Rupee         |Silver           |   .36 6-10
Italy               |Lira          |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
Japan               |Yen           |Silver           |   .85 8-10
Liberia             |Dollar        |Gold             |  1.00
Mexico              |Dollar        |Silver           |   .83 7-10
Netherlands         |Florin        |Gold and Silver  |   .40 2-10
Norway              |Crown         |Gold             |   .26 8-10
Peru                |Sol           |Silver           |   .77 1-10
Portugal            |Milreis       |Gold             |  1.08
Russia              |Rouble        |Silver           |   .61 7-10
Sandwich Islands    |Dollar        |Gold             |  1.00
Spain               |Peseta        |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
Sweden              |Crown         |Gold             |   .26 8-10
Switzerland         |Franc         |Gold and Silver  |   .19 3-10
Tripoli             |Mahbub        |Silver           |   .69 5-10
Turkey              |Piaster       |Gold             |   .04 4-10
U.S. of Columbia    |Peso          |Silver           |   .79 5-10
Venezuela           |Bolivar       |Gold and Silver  |   .15 4-10
--------------------+--------------+-----------------+------------

The largest producing farm in the world lies in the southwest corner of
Louisiana, owned by a northern syndicate. It runs one hundred miles
north and south. The immense tract is divided into convenient pastures,
with stations of ranches every six miles. The fencing alone cost nearly
$50,000.

The "Seven Wonders of the World" are seven most remarkable objects of
the ancient world. They are: The Pyramids of Egypt, Pharos of
Alexandria, Walls and Hanging Gardens of Babylon, Temple of Diana at
Ephesus, the Statue of the Olympian Jupiter, Mausoleum of Artemisia,
and Colossus of Rhodes.

The seven sages flourished in Greece in the 6th century B.C. They were
renowned for their maxims of life and as the authors of the mottoes
inscribed in the Delphian Temple. Their names are: Solon, Chilo,
Pittacus, Bias, Periander, Clebolus and Thales.

The estimated number of Christians in the world is over 408,000,000; of
Buddhists, 420,000,000; of the followers of Brahma, 180,000,000; of
Mohammedans, 150,000,000; of Jews, 8,000,000; of atheists, deists, and
infidels, 85,000,000; of pagans, 50,000,000, and of the 1,100 other
minor creeds, 123,000,000.

In 1775 there were only 27 newspapers published in the United States.
Ten years later, in 1785, there were seven published in the English
language in Philadelphia alone, of which one was a daily. The oldest
newspaper published in Philadelphia at the time of the Federal
convention was the _Pennsylvania Gazette_, established by Samuel
Keimer, in 1728. The second newspaper in point of age was the
_Pennsylvania Journal_, established in 1742 by William Bradford,
whose uncle, Andrew Bradford, established the first newspaper in
Pennsylvania, the _American Weekly Mercury_, in 1719. The next in age,
but the first in importance, was the _Pennsylvania Packet_, established
by John Dunlop in 1771. In 1784 it became a daily, being the first
daily newspaper printed on this continent.




GEMS OF THOUGHT.




POOR RICHARD'S ALMANAC

BY

Benjamin Franklin.




POOR RICHARD'S ALMANAC.


COURTEOUS READER:

I have heard that nothing gives an author so great pleasure as to find
his works respectfully quoted by other learned authors. This pleasure I
have seldom enjoyed. For though I have been, if I may say it without
vanity, an _eminent_ author of _Almanacs_ annually now for a full
quarter of a century, my brother authors in the same way, for what
reason I know not, have ever been very sparing in their applauses; and
no other author has taken the least notice of me; so that did not my
writings produce me some solid pudding, the great deficiency of praise
would have quite discouraged me.

I concluded at length that the people were the best judges of my merit,
for they buy my works; and besides, in my rambles where I am not
personally known, I have frequently heard one or other of my adages
repeated, with _as Poor Richard says_ at the end of it. This gives me
some satisfaction, as it showed, not only that my instructions were
regarded, but discovered likewise some respect for my authority; and I
own that to encourage the practice of remembering and repeating those
sentences, I have sometimes quoted myself with great activity.

Judge, then, how much I must have been gratified by an incident I am
going to relate to you. I stopped my horse lately where a great number
of people were collected at a vendue of merchant's goods. The hour of
sale not being come, they were conversing on the badness of the times;
and one of the company called to a plain, clean old man with white
locks, "Pray, Father Abraham, what think you of the times? Won't these
heavy taxes quite ruin the country? How shall we ever be able to pay
them? What would you advise us to do?" Father Abraham stood up and
replied: "If you would have my advice, I will give it you in short; for
_A word to the wise is enough_, and _Many words won't fill a bushel_,
as Poor Richard says." They all joined, desiring him to speak his mind,
and gathering round him, he proceeded as follows:

Friends, says he, and neighbors, the taxes are indeed very heavy, and
if those laid on by the government were the only ones we had to pay, we
might the more easily discharge them; but we have many others, and much
more grievous to some of us. We are taxed twice as much by our
IDLENESS, three times as much by our PRIDE and four times as much by
our FOLLY; and from these taxes the commissioners cannot ease or
deliver us, by allowing an abatement. However, let us hearken to good
advice, and something may be done for us; _God helps them that help
themselves_, as Poor Richard says in his _Almanac_ of 1733.

It would be thought a hard government that should tax its people
one-tenth part of their TIME, to be employed in its service, but
idleness taxes many of us much more, if we reckon all that is spent in
absolute sloth, or doing of nothing, with that which is spent in idle
employments or amusements that amount to nothing. Sloth, by bringing on
disease, absolutely shortens life. _Sloth, like rust, consumes faster
than labor wears; while the used key is always bright_, as Poor Richard
says. _But dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that's
the stuff life is made of_, as Poor Richard says.

How much more that is necessary do we spend in sleep? Forgetting that
_the sleeping fox catches no poultry_, and that _there will be sleeping
enough in the grave_, as Poor Richard says. If times be of all things
the most precious, _wasting of time must be_, as Poor Richard says,
_the greatest prodigality_; since, as he elsewhere tells us, _lost time
is never found again_; and what we call _time enough! always proves
little enough_. Let us then up and be doing, and doing to the purpose;
so, by diligence, shall we do more with less perplexity. _Sloth makes
all things difficult, but industry all things easy_, as Poor Richard
says; and _He that riseth late must trot all day, and shall scarce
overtake his business at night; while laziness travels so slowly that
Poverty soon overtakes him_, as we read in Poor Richard; who adds,
_Drive thy business! Let not that drive thee!_ and

      Early to bed and early to rise
    Makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.

So what signifies _wishing_ and _hoping_ for better times? We may make
these times better if we bestir ourselves. _Industry need not wish_, as
Poor Richard says, and _He that lives on hope will die fasting_. _There
are no gains without pains; then help, hands! for I have no lands_; or
if I have they are smartly taxed. And, as Poor Richard likewise
observes, _He that hath a trade hath an estate, and he that hath a
calling hath an honor_; but then the trade must be worked at, and the
calling well followed, or neither the estate nor the office will enable
us to pay our taxes. If we are industrious we shall never starve; for,
as Poor Richard says, _At the working-man's house hunger looks in, but
dares not enter._ Nor will the bailiff or the constable enter, for
_Industry pays debts, while despair increaseth them_.

What though you have found no treasure, nor has any rich relation left
you a legacy, _Diligence is the mother of good luck_, as Poor Richard
says, _and God gives all things to industry_

    Then plough deep while the sluggards sleep,
    And you shall have corn to sell and to keep,

says Poor Dick. Work while it is called to-day, for you know not how
much you may be hindered to-morrow; which makes Poor Richard say, _One
to-day is worth two to-morrows_; and farther, _Have you somewhat to do
tomorrow? Do it to-day!_

If you were a servant, would you not be ashamed that a good master
should catch you idle? Are you then your own master? _Be ashamed to
catch yourself idle_, as Poor Richard says. When there is so much to be
done for yourself, your family, your country, and your gracious king,
be up by peep of day! _Let not the sun look down and say, "Inglorious
here he lies!"_ Handle your tools without mittens! remember that _The
cat in gloves catches no mice!_ as poor Richard says.

'Tis true there is much to be done, and perhaps you are weak-handed;
but stick to it steadily, and you will see great effects; for _Constant
dropping wears away stones_; and _By diligence and patience the mouse
ate in two the cable_; and _Little strokes fell great oaks_; as Poor
Richard says in his _Almanac_, the year I cannot just now remember.

Methinks I hear some of you say, "Must a man afford himself no
leisure?" I will tell, thee, my friend, what Poor Richard says, _Employ
thy time well, if thou meanest to gain leisure_; and _Since thou are
not sure of a minute, throw not away an hour!_ Leisure is time for
doing something useful; this leisure the diligent man will obtain, but
the lazy man never; so that, as Poor Richard says, _A life of leisure
and a life of laziness are two things._ Do you imagine that sloth will
afford you more comfort than labor? No! for as Poor Richard says,
_Trouble springs from idleness, and grievous toil from needless ease.
Many, without labor, would live by their wits only, but they'll break
for want of stock_ (i.e. capital); whereas industry gives comfort, and
plenty, and respect. _Fly pleasures, and they'll follow you. The
diligent spinner has a large shift_; and

    Now I have a sheep and a cow,
    Everybody bids me good morrow.

All which is well said by Poor Richard. But with our industry we must
likewise be steady, settled, and careful, and oversee our own affairs
_with our own eyes_, and not trust too much to others; for, as Poor
Richard says,

    I never saw an oft removed tree,
    Nor yet an oft removed family,
    That throve so well as those that settled be.

And again, _Three removes are as bad as a fire_; and again, _Keep thy
shop, and thy shop will keep thee_; and again, _If you would have your
business done, go; if not, send._ And again,

    He that by the plough would thrive,
    Himself must either hold or drive.

And again, _The eye of the master will do more work than both his
hands_; and again, _Want of care does us more damage than want of
knowledge_; and again, _Not to oversee workmen is to leave them your
purse open._

Trusting too much to others' care is the ruin of many; for, as the
Almanac says, _In the affairs of this world men are saved, not by
faith, but by the want of it_; but a man's own care is profitable; for
saith Poor Dick, _Learning is to the studious and Riches to the
careful_; as well as, _Power to the bold, and Heaven to the virtuous._
And further, _If you would have a faithful servant, and one that you
like, serve yourself._

And again, he adviseth to circumspection and care, even in the smallest
matters; because, sometimes, _A little neglect may breed great
mischief_; adding, _for want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a
shoe the horse was lost; and for want of a horse the rider was lost_;
being overtaken and slain by the enemy; all for want of a little care
about a horseshoe nail!

So much for industry, my friends, and attention to one's own business;
but to these we must add frugality, if we would make our industry more
certainly successful. _A man may_, if he knows not how to save as he
gets, _keep his nose all his life to the grindstone, and die not worth
a groat at last. A fat kitchen makes a lean will_, as Poor Richard
says; and

    Many estates are spent in the getting,
    Since women for tea[3] forsook spinning and knitting,
    And men for punch forsook hewing and splitting.

      [3] Tea at this time was a costly drink, and was regarded as a
      luxury.

If you would be wealthy, says he in another Almanac, _Think of saving
as well as of getting. The Indies have not made Spain rich; because her
outgoes are greater than her incomes._

Away, then, with your expensive follies, and you will not have so much
cause to complain of hard times, heavy taxes, and chargeable families;
for, as Poor Dick says,--

    Women and wine, game and deceit,
    Make the wealth small and the wants great.

And farther, _What maintains one vice would bring up two children._ You
may think, perhaps, that a _little_ tea, or a _little_ punch now and
then; a diet a _little_ more mostly; clothes a _little_ more finer; and
a _little_ more entertainment now and then, can be no great matter; but
remember what Poor Richard says, _Many a little makes a mickle_; and
further, _Beware of little expenses_; _A small leak will sink a great
ship_; and again,--

    Who dainties love, shall beggars prove;

and moreover, _Fools make feasts and wise men eat them_.

Here are you all got together at this vendue of fineries knick-knacks.
You call them _goods_; but if you do not take care, they will prove
evils to some of you. You expect they will be sold cheap, and perhaps
they may for less than they cost; but, if you have no occasion for
them, they must be _dear_ to you. Remember what Poor Richard says:
_Buy what thou hast no need of and ere long thou shalt sell thy
necessaries._ And again, _At a great pennyworth, pause a while._ He
means, that perhaps the cheapness is apparent only, and not real; or
the bargain by straitening thee in thy business, may do thee more harm
than good. For in another place he says, _Many have been ruined by
buying good pennyworths._

Again, Poor Richard says, _'Tis foolish to lay out money in a purchase
of repentance_; and yet this folly is practiced every day at vendues
for want of minding the _Almanac_.

_Wise men_, as Poor Richard says, _learn by others' harms_; _Fools
scarcely by their own_; but _Felix quem faciunt aliena pericula
cautum._[4] Many a one for the sake of finery on the back, has gone
with a hungry belly, and half-starved their families. _Silks and
satins, scarlets and velvets_, as Poor Richard says, _put out the
kitchen fire_. These are not the necessaries of life; they can scarcely
be called the conveniences; and yet, only because they look pretty, how
many _want_ to have them! The artificial wants of mankind thus become
more numerous than the natural; and, as Poor Dick says, _For one_ poor
_person there are a hundred_ indigent.

      [4] He's a lucky fellow who is made prudent by other men's
      perils.

By these and other extravagances, the genteel are reduced to poverty,
and forced to borrow of those whom they formerly despised, but who,
through industry and frugality, have maintained their standing; in
which case it appears plainly, that _A ploughman on his legs is higher
than a gentleman on his knees_, as Poor Richard says. Perhaps they have
had a small estate left them, which they know not the getting of; they
think, _'Tis day, and will never be night_, that a _little to be spent
out of so much is not worth minding_; (_A child and a fool_, as Poor
Richard says, _imagine_ twenty shilling and twenty years can never be
spent), but _Always taking out of the meal-tub and never putting in,
soon comes to the bottom._ Then, as Poor Dick says, _When the well's
dry, they know the_ _worth of water_. But this they might have known
before, if they had taken his advice. _If you would know the value of
money, go and try to borrow some_; for _He that goes a borrowing, goes
a sorrowing_, and indeed, so does he that lends to such people, _when
he goes to get it again_.

Poor Dick further advises and says--

    Fond pride of dress is, sure a very curse;
    Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.

And again, _Pride is as loud a beggar as Want, and a great deal more
saucy._ When you have bought one fine thing, you must buy ten more,
that your appearance may be all of a piece; but Poor Dick says, _'Tis
easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow
it._ And 'tis as truly folly for the poor to ape the rich, as for the
frog to swell in order to equal the ox.

    Great estates may venture more,
    But little boats should keep near shore.

'Tis, however, a folly soon punished; for, _Pride that dines on vanity
sups on contempt_, as Poor Richard says. And in another place, _Pride
breakfasted with Plenty, dined with Poverty and supped with Infancy_.

And after all, what use is this pride of appearance, for which so much
is risked, so much is suffered? It cannot promote health or ease pain;
it makes no increase of merit in the person; it creates envy; it
hastens misfortune.

    What is a butterfly? At best
    He's but a caterpillar drest,
    The gaudy fop's his picture just,

as poor Richard says.

But what madness must it be to _run into debt_ for these superfluities!
We are offered, by the terms of this vendue, six months' credit; and
that, perhaps, has induced some of us to attend it, because we cannot
spare the ready money, and hope now to be fine without it. But, ah!
think what you do when you run in debt: _You give to another power over
your liberty._ If you cannot pay at the time, you will be ashamed to
see your creditor; you will be in fear when you speak to him; you will
make poor, pitiful, sneaking excuses, and by degrees come to lose our
veracity, and sink into base, downright lying; for, as Poor Richard
says, _The second vice is lying, the first is running into debt_; and
again, to the same purpose, _lying rides upon debt's back_; whereas a
free-born Englishman ought not to be ashamed or afraid to see or speak
to any man living. But poverty often deprives a man of all spirit and
virtue. _'Tis hard for an empty bag to stand upright!_ as Poor Richard
truly says. What would you think of that prince, or that government who
should issue an edict forbidding you to dress like a gentleman or
gentlewoman, on pain of imprisonment or servitude? Would you not say
that you are free, have a right to dress as you please, and that such
an edict would be a breach of your privileges, and such a government
tyranical? And yet you are about to put yourself under such tyranny,
when you run in debt for such dress! Your creditor has authority, at
his pleasure, to deprive you of your liberty, by confining you in jail
for life, or to sell you for a servant, if you should not be able to
pay him.[5] When you have got your bargain you may, perhaps, think
little of payment; but _Creditors_ (Poor Richard tells us) _have better
memories than debtors_; and in another place says, _Creditors are a
superstitious set, great observers of set days and times._ The day
comes round before you are aware, and the demand is made before you are
prepared to satisfy it; or, if you will bear your debt in mind, the
term which at first seemed so long will, as it lessens, appear
extremely short. Time will seem to have added wings to his heels as
well as his shoulders. _Those have a short Lent_, saith Poor Richard,
_who owe money to be paid at Easter._ Then since, as he says, _The
borrower is a slave to the lender, and the debtor to the creditor_,
disdain the chain, preserve your freedom, and maintain your
independency. Be _industrious_ and _free_; be _frugal_ and _free_. At
present, perhaps, you may think yourself in thriving circumstances, and
that you can bear a little extravagance without injury; but--

    For age and want, save while you may,
    No morning sun lasts a whole day.

      [5] At the time when this was written, and for many years
      afterward, the laws against bankrupts and poor debtors were
      extremely severe.

As Poor Richard says, gain may be temporary and uncertain; but ever,
while you live, expense is constant and certain; and _'Tis easier to
build two chimneys than to keep one in fuel_, as Poor Richard says;
so, _Rather go to bed supperless than rise in debt._

    Get what you can and what you get hold:
    'Tis the stone that will turn all your lead in gold,[6]

as Poor Richard says; and, while you have got the Philosopher's stone,
sure, you will no longer complain of bad times or the difficulty of
paying taxes.

      [6] In the Middle Ages there was a great search made for the
      philosopher's stone, as it was called, a mineral which should
      have the power of turning base metals into gold.

This doctrine, my friends, is reason and wisdom; but, after all, do not
depend too much upon your own industry and frugality and prudence,
though excellent things; for they may all be blasted without the
blessing of Heaven; and therefore, ask that blessing humbly, and be not
uncharitable to those that at present seem to want it, but comfort and
help them. Remember Job suffered, and was afterwards prosperous.

And now, to conclude, _Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will
learn in no other, and scarce in that_; for it is true, _We may give
advice, but we cannot give conduct_, as Poor Richard says. However,
remember this, _They that won't be counselled, can't be helped_, as
Poor Richard says; and further, that, _If you will not hear reason,
she'll surely rap your knuckles._

Thus the old gentleman ended his harangue. The people heard it, and
approved the doctrine; and immediately practiced the contrary, just as
if it had been a common sermon. For the vendue opened, and they began
to buy extravagantly, notwithstanding all his cautions, and their own
fear of taxes. I found the good man had thoroughly studied my
_Almanacs_, and digested all I had dropped on those topics during the
course of five-and-twenty-years. The frequent mention he made of me
must have tired any one else; but my vanity was wonderfully delighted
with it, though I was conscious that not a tenth part of the wisdom was
my own which he ascribed to me, but rather the gleanings that I had
made of the sense of all ages and nations. However, I resolved to be
the better for the echo of it; and, though I had at first determined to
buy stuff for a new coat, I went away resolved to wear my old one a
little longer. Reader, if thou wilt do the same, _thy_ profit will be
as great as mine. I am, as ever, thine to serve thee.

July 7, 1757.                                       RICHARD SAUNDERS.


    THE WATER-MILL.

    Oh! listen to the water-mill, through all the live-long day,
    As the clicking of the wheels wears hour by hour away;
    How languidly the autumn wind doth stir the withered leaves,
    As on the field the reapers sing, while binding up the sheaves!
    A solemn proverb strikes my mind, and as a spell is cast,
    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    The summer winds revive no more leaves strewn o'er earth and main,
    The sickle never more will reap the yellow garnered grain;
    The rippling stream flows on, aye tranquil, deep, and still,
    But never glideth back again to busy water-mill.
    The solemn proverb speaks to all, with meaning deep and vast,
    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    Oh! clasp the proverb to thy soul, dear loving heart and true,
    For golden years are fleeting by, and youth is passing, too;
    Ah! learn to make the most of life, nor lose one happy day,
    For time will ne'er return sweet joys neglected, thrown away;
    Nor leave one tender word unsaid, thy kindness sow broadcast--
    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    Oh! the wasted hours of life, that have swiftly drifted by,
    Alas! the good we might have done, all gone without a sigh;
    Love that we might once have saved by a single kindly word,
    Thoughts conceived but ne'er expressed, perishing unpenned, unheard.
    Oh! take the lesson to thy soul, forever clasp it fast,
    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    Work on while yet the sun doth shine, thou man of strength and will,
    The streamlet ne'er doth useless glide by clicking watermill;
    Nor wait until to-morrow's light beams brightly on thy way.
    For all that thou canst call thine own, lies in the phrase, "to-day;"
    Possessions, power, and blooming health, must all be lost at last--

    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    Oh! love thy God and fellow man, thyself consider last,
    For come it will when they must scan dark errors of the past;
    Soon will this fight of life be o'er, and earth recede from view,
    And heaven in all its glory shine where all is pure and true.
    Ah! then thou'lt see more clearly still the proverb deep and vast,
    "The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

                                                      D. C. MCCALLUM.


Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of
chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course
others may take, but for me, give me liberty or give me death.

                                                       PATRICK HENRY.


The law is a sort of hocus-pocus science, that smiles in yer face while
it picks yer pocket; and the glorious uncertainty of it is of mair use
to the professors than the justice of it.

                                                             MACKLIN.


    OUR MISSION.

    In calm and stormy weather
      Our mission is to grow;
    To keep the angle paramount
      And bind the brute below.

    We grow not all in sunshine,
      But richly in the rain;
    And what we deem our losses
      May prove our final gain.

    The snows and frosts of winter
      A richer fruitage bring;
    From battling with the anvil
      The smith's grand muscles spring.

    'Tis by the law of contrast
      That fine effects are seen;
    As thus we blend in colors
      The orange with the green.

    By action and reaction
      We reach our perfect growth;
    Nor by excess of neither,
      But equipoise of both.
    The same code binds the human.

      That governs mother earth;
    God cradled her in tempest
      And earthquakes from her birth.

    Our life is but a struggle
      For perfect equipoise;
    Our pains are often jewels,
      Our pleasures gilded toys.

    Between the good and evil
      The monarch will must stand,
    To shape the final issue
      By God's divine command.

    Our mission is to battle
      With ill in every form--
    To borrow strength and volume
      From contact with the storm.

    In the beautiful hereafter
      These blinding mortal tears
    Shall crystalize in jewels
      To sparkle in the spheres.

    With weak and moldish vision
      We work our way below;
    But sure our souls are building
      Much wiser than we know.

    And when the work is finished
      The scaffolding then falls;
    And lo! a radiant temple,
      With pearl and sapphire walls.

    A temple far transcending
      The grandest piles below,
    Whose dome shall blaze with splendor,
      In God's eternal glow.

Wealth is necessary; let us not disclaim against it; every nation needs
it to attain the highest achievements in civilization. But it is a
blessing only as a servant, and is destructive as a master.

                                                     JOHN P. ALTGELD.


If I were a young man I should ally myself with some high and at
present unpopular cause, and devote my every effort to accomplish its
success.

                                                    JOHN G. WHITTIER.


      Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,
      Where wealth accumulates and men decay.

    Princes and lords may flourish and may fade;
    A breath can make them, as breath has made;
    But an honest peasantry, a country's pride,
    When once destroyed, can never be supplied.

War preys on two things--life and property: but he preys with a partial
appetite. Feasting on life, he licks his jaws and says, "More, by your
leave!" Devouring property, he says, between grin and glut, "This is so
good that it ought to be paid for!" Into the vacuum of wasted life rush
the moaning winds of grief and desolation; in to the vacuum of wasted
property rushes the goblin of debt. The wasted life is transformed at
length into a reminiscent glory; the wasted property becomes a hideous
nightmare. The heroes fallen rise from their bloody cerements into
everlasting fame; the property destroyed rises from the red and
flame-swept field as a spectral vampire, sucking the still warm blood
of the heroic dead and of their posthumous babes to the tenth
generation! The name of the vampire is Bond.

                                                  JOHN CLARK RIDPATH.


    TO A WATERFOWL.

             Whither, mid'st falling dew,
    While glow the heavens with the last steps of day,
    Far through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue
             Thy solitary way?

             Vainly the fowler's eye
    Might mark thy distant flight to do thee wrong,
    As, darkly seen against the crimson sky,
             Thy figure floats along.

             Seek'st thou the plashy brink
    Of weedy lake, or marge of river wide,
    Or where the rocking billows rise and sink
             On the chafed ocean side?

             There is a Power whose care
    Teaches thy way along that pathless coast--
    The desert and illimitable air--
             Lone wandering, but not lost.

             All day thy wings have fanned,
    At that far height, the cold, thin atmosphere,
    Yet stoop not, weary, to the welcome land,
             Though the dark night is near.

             And soon that toil shall end;
    Soon shall thou find a summer home, and rest,
    And scream among thy fellows; reeds shall bend
             Soon, o'er thy sheltered nest.

             Thou'rt gone, the abyss of heaven
    Hath swallowed up thy form; yet on my heart
    Deeply hath sunk the lesson thou hast given
             And shall not soon depart.

             He who, from zone to zone,
    Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight,
    In the long way that I must tread alone
             Will lead my steps aright.

                              WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.




ROBERT BURNS


(Considered by many the world's greatest Song writer and natural Poet.)

While Burns was yet a plow boy he was challenged by two highly educated
gentlemen, who were seated awaiting their dinner to be served at an Inn
in the town of Ayr.

The terms of the challenge was for each to write a verse on the event
of their first acquaintance, the one writing the best and most
appropriate short rhyme was to have his dinner paid for by the other
two.

Burns wrote as follows:

    I Jonnie Peep,
    Saw two sheep.
    Two sheep saw me.
    Half a crown apiece
    Will pay for their fleece.
    And I Jonnie Peep go free.

On another occasion while drinking at a Bar a hanger on who was notorious
for his much drinking and was dubbed the Marquis, asked Burns to write an
appropriate epitaph for his grave stone.

Burns, quick as flash and without any apparent effort, wrote:

    Here lies a faulse Marquis:
    Whose title is shamed
    If ever he rises
    It will be to be damned.


TO A MOUSE.

    Wee, sleekit, cowrin' tim'rous beastie.
    Oh, what a panic's in thy breastie!
    Thou needna start awa' sae hasty.
             Wi' bickering brattle!
    I wad be laith to rin and chase thee,
             Wi murd'ing prattle!

    I'm truly sorry man's dominion
    Has broken nature's social union,
    And justifies that ill opinion
             Which makes thee startle
    At me, thy poor earth-born companion
             And fellow-mortal!

    I doubt na, whiles, but thou may thieve;
    What then? poor beastie, thou maun live!
    A daimen icker in a thrave
             'S a sma' o' request
    I'll get a blessin' wi' the lave,
             And never miss 't!

    Thy wee bit housie, too, in ruin!
    Its silly wa's the win's are strewin'!
    And naething now to big a new ane
             O' foggage green!
    And bleak December's winds ensuin'
             Baith snell and keen!

    Thou saw the fields laid bare and waste
    And weary winter comin' fast.
    And cozie here, beneath the blast,
             Thou thought to dwell;
    Till, crash! the cruel coulter past
             Out through thy cell.

    That wee bit heap o'leaves and stibble
    Has cost thee mony a weary nibble!
    Now thou's turn'd out for a' thy trouble,
             But house or hauld,
    To thole the winter's sleety dribble
             And cranreuch cauld.

    But, Mousie, thou art no thy lane,
    In proving foresight may be vain;
    The bes laid schemes o' mice and men
             Gang aft a-gley,
    And lea 'e us naught but grief and pain
             For promised joy.

    Still thou art blest, compared wi' me!
    The present only toucheth thee,
    But, och! I backward cast my ee
             On prospects drear!
    And forward, though I canna see,
             I guess and fear.

                                 ROBERT BURNS.




CHAPTER XI.

ORATORICAL DEPARTMENT.


The author believes he is here presenting such selections as will be
accepted as masterpieces.

Mr. Bryan's speech at New Haven, where he was disturbed by students is
taken from his book, the First Battle, and is here offered to show the
wonderful composure of the speaker, rather than to present a fine or
eloquent speech.

The New York Sun's editorial, and the resolution of the council of
Indians will show the difference of opinion that exists between
commercial editors and the men of nature. It is obvious that these
students were disturbing a public meeting, and to justify them is to
wink at crime, scorn at justice, mock at the freedom of speech and
excuse ignorance.

Certainly the Indian presents the idea of advancing forward, while the
New York Sun man is advancing (?) backward.




PATRICK HENRY'S SPEECH.

VIRGINIA MUST PREPARE FOR WAR.


There is no time for ceremony. The question before the House is one of
awful moment to this country. For my own part, I consider it as nothing
less than a question of freedom or slavery; and in proportion to the
magnitude of the subject ought to be the freedom of debate. It is only
in this way that we can hope to arrive at truth, and fulfill the great
responsibility which we hold to God and our country. Should I keep back
my opinions at such a time, through fear of giving offense, I should
consider myself as guilty of treason toward my country, and of an act
of disloyalty toward the Majesty of Heaven, which I revere above all
earthly kings. It is natural to man to indulge in the illusions of
Hope. We are apt to shut our eyes against a painful truth, and listen
to the song of that Siren till she transforms us into beasts. Is this
the part of wise men engaged in a great and arduous struggle for
liberty? Are we disposed to be of the number of those who, having eyes
see not, and having ears hear not the things which so nearly concern
their temporal salvation? For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it
may cost, I am willing to know the whole truth; to know the worst, and
provide for it.

I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided; and that is the lamp
of experience. I know of no way of judging of the future but by the
past. And judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in
the conduct of the British Ministry for the last ten years to justify
those hopes with which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves
and the House. Is it that insidious smile with which our petition has
been lately received? Trust it not. It will prove a snare to your feet.
Suffer not yourselves to be betrayed by a kiss. Ask yourselves how this
gracious reception of our petition comports with those warlike
preparations which cover our waters and darken our land. Are fleets and
armies necessary to a work of love and reconciliation? Have we shown
ourselves so unwilling to be reconciled, that force must be called in
to win back our love? Let us not deceive ourselves. These are the
implements of war and subjugation; the last arguments to which kings
resort. I ask what means this martial array, if its purpose be not to
force us to submission. Can gentlemen assign any other possible motive
for it? Has Great Britain an enemy in this quarter of the world to call
for all this accumulation of navies and armies? No; she has none. They
are meant for us; they can be meant for no other. They are sent over to
bind and rivet upon us those chains which the British Ministry have
been so long forging.

And what have we to oppose to them? Shall we try argument? We have been
trying that for the last ten years. Have we anything new to offer upon
the subject? Nothing. We have held the subject up in every light of
which it is capable; but it has been all in vain. Shall we resort to
entreaty and humble supplication? What terms shall we find which have
not been already exhausted? Let us not deceive ourselves longer. We
have done everything that could be done to avert the storm which is now
coming on. We have petitioned, we have remonstrated, we have
supplicated; we have prostrated ourselves before the Throne, and have
implored its interposition to arrest the tyrannical hand of the
Ministry and Parliament. Our petitions have been slighted; our
remonstrances have produced additional violence and insult; our
supplications have been disregarded; and we have been spurned, with
contempt, from the foot of the Throne. In vain, after these things, may
we indulge the fond hope of peace and reconciliation. There is no
longer any room for hope. If we wish to be free--if we mean to preserve
inviolate those inestimable privileges for which we have been so long
contending--if we mean not basely to abandon the noble struggle in
which we have been so long engaged, and which we have pledged never to
abandon until the glorious object of our contest shall be obtained--we
must fight! I repeat it, we must fight! An appeal to arms, and to the
God of Hosts, is all that is left to us.

They tell us that we are weak--unable to cope with so formidable an
adversary. But when shall we be stronger? Will it be the next week, or
the next year? Will it be when we are totally disarmed, and when a
British guard shall be stationed in every house? Shall we gather
strength by irresolution and inaction? Shall we acquire the means of
effectual resistance by lying supinely on our backs, and hugging the
delusive phantom of Hope until our enemies have bound us hand and foot?
We are not weak if we make a proper use of those means which the God of
Nature hath placed in our power. Three millions of people, armed in the
holy cause of liberty, are invincible by any force which the enemy can
send against us. Besides, we shall not fight our battles alone. There
is a just God who presides over the destinies of nations, and will
raise us friends to fight our battle for us. The battle is not to the
strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave.

Besides, we have no election. If we were base enough to desire it, it
is now too late to retire from the contest. There is no retreat but in
submission and slavery. Our chains are forged; their clanking may be
heard on the plains of Boston. The war is inevitable--and let it come!
I repeat it. Let it come! It is in vain to extenuate the matter.
Gentlemen may cry, Peace, peace--but there is no peace. The war is
actually begun. The next gale that sweeps from the north will bring to
our ear the clash of resounding arms. Our brethren are already in the
field! Why are we here idle? What is it that gentlemen wish? What would
they have? Is life so dear or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the
price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what
course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me
death!--Speech in Convention, March 25, 1775.




ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S SPEECH.

SPEECH AT THE DEDICATION OF THE NATIONAL CEMETERY AT GETTYSBURG,
PENNSYLVANIA, NOVEMBER 19, 1863.


"Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this
continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the
proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a
great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so
conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great
battlefield of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that
field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that
that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this. But in a large sense we cannot dedicate, we cannot
consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and
dead, who struggled here have consecrated it far above our poor power
to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what
we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us,
the living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which
they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for
us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us--that
from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for
which they gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly
resolve that these dead have not died in vain; that this nation, under
God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of the
people, by the people, for the people shall not perish from the earth."




WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN'S SPEECHES.

YALE COLLEGE INCIDENT.--BRYAN SPEAKS UNDER DIFFICULTIES


I am glad that there are students here, because I want to say a word to
students. Your college has helped to add fame to your city, and those
who assemble here are supposed to come in order that they may better
equip themselves for the duties of life. I am glad to talk to students,
because, my friends, we have a cause which appeals to students. If the
syndicates and corporations rule this country, then no young man has a
fair show unless he is the favorite of a corporation. (Applause--and
yells for McKinley by a cordon of the students.) If the people have a
right to govern themselves and exercise that right, then every citizen
has an equal chance and every man may achieve what he desires. We wish
to leave all the avenues open so that the son of the humblest citizen
may aspire to the highest position within the gift of the people.
(Applause and yells repeated.)

I am not speaking now to the sons who are sent to college on the
proceeds of ill-gotten gains. (Enthusiastic applause.) I will wait
until these sons have exhausted what their fathers have left them and
then appeal to their children who will have to commence life where
their grandfathers commenced. (Great applause.) My friends, a just
government is best for the great masses of the people. Equal laws and
equal opportunities are best for nine out of every ten of us. (Yells
again repeated.) Therefore, our cause appeals to every young man who
wants to make this Government so good as to deserve the love,
confidence and the support of every citizen in this land.

We appeal not only to the students; we appeal to business men who have
been terrorized by the financial--what may I call it? (Applause.)
People have been tyrannized over by financial institutions until in
some instances it is more dangerous to raise your voice against the
ruling power than it is in an absolute monarchy. (Great applause and
yells.) If there is anybody who loves this sort of thing then I shall
offend him by speaking of it, but I shall not offend any man who loves
liberty and the right of free speech in this country. (Great applause.)

The business men have been told that the free coinage of silver would
ruin them. If it can ruin them with more rapidity than the gold
standard has ruined them, then, my friends, it will be bad, indeed,
because the gold standard has increased the number of failures among
business men, and every step that has been taken has been
followed----(Yells from the students.) I have been so used to talking
to young men who earn their own living that I do not know----(Great
applause and cheering.) I say, I have been so used to talking to young
men who earn their own living that I hardly know what language to use
to address myself to those who desire to be known, not as creators of
wealth, but as the distributors of wealth which somebody else created.
(Great applause and cheering.) If you will show me a young man who has
been taught to believe----(More yells and cries of "McKinley.")

In all my travels I have not found a crowd that needed talking to so
much as this crowd does. (Cries of "That's right.") I came to this city
something more than a year ago, and I then learned something of the
domination of your financial classes. I have seen it elsewhere, but, my
friends, the great mass of the people even of this city, will be better
off under bimetallism that permits the nation to grow, than under a
gold standard which starves everybody except the money changer and the
money owner.

We sometimes out West are instructed by your insurance companies. I
carry insurance in old line companies and in what are known as the
mutual or assessment companies. I carry insurance in fraternal
organizations like the United Workmen and the Modern Woodmen, as well
as in the old line companies, and I am glad that my assessment
companies are satisfied to take my money and give me insurance without
attempting to tell me how I must vote. Your old line companies have
seen fit to insult the intelligence of the people by attempting to
exercise a guardian care, notwithstanding the fact that we are able to
look after ourselves without their instructions.

You have laboring men also in large numbers in this city. I do not know
whether the advocates of the gold standard here who employ men in the
shops insist upon telling their employes how to vote. I have in other
places found employers who would put in envelopes the pay for the day's
work or week's work, and then print on the outside of the envelopes
some instructions to the employes. If the manufacturer, employer, or
railroad president feels that there must be something on the outside of
the envelope as well as upon the inside, let him write on the outside:
"You will find within your wages. They are to cover your work. We
recognize that the men who have sense enough to do the work we want
done have sense enough to vote right, without our telling them how to
vote."

I notice that in some places they have been organizing sound money
clubs, and they have the applicant sign a statement, saying that the
free coinage of silver would hurt him in his business as a wage earner.
I have wondered why our great financial magnates do not put in their
application a statement similar to that. Why don't the heads of these
syndicates which have been bleeding the Government make application to
sound money clubs and write in their application that the free coinage
of silver would hurt them in their business as heads of syndicates?
They want people to believe that they are entirely benevolent, that
they are philanthropists, and that what they do is done merely because
they believe that the people will be benefited by having them run the
Government, and they submit to the inconvenience of running the
Government in order to help the people, who, they say, will be
benefited. (More confusion and applause by the students.)

Why is it that the broker or the bond buyer does not write in his
application that he has a personal interest in the gold standard? Why
is it that these men want to throw upon the wage earners whatever odium
there may be in using his vote to protect his personal interests? I
believe the wage earner, and the farmer, and the business man, and the
professional man, all of these will be benefited by a volume of money
sufficient to do business with. If you make money scarce you make money
dear. If you make money dear you drive down the value of everything,
and when you have falling prices you have hard times. And who prosper
by hard times? There are but few, and those few are not willing to
admit that they get any benefit from hard times. No party ever declared
in its platform that it was in favor of hard times, and yet the party
that declares for a gold standard in substance declares for a
continuation of hard times.

Here a band which had been playing for a drill in another part of the
square came nearer and made talking more difficult, and my voice not
being in good condition I concluded my remarks by saying:

It is hard to talk when all the conditions are favorable, and I must
ask you to excuse me from talking any further in the presence of the
noises against which we have to contend today.

I have since learned that some misunderstood my closing words, and
thought I again referred to the students, but this is an error. They
were making no disturbance when I finished speaking. I did not even
mean to criticize the band, because I was sure that the interruption
was not intentional, but my voice being hoarse and the crowd large, it
was difficult to make myself heard even when there was perfect quiet.

The incident gave rise to a good deal of public discussion.

A few papers criticised my language on that occasion and declared that
my words provoked the hostile demonstration. As a matter of fact, the
hostility was manifested before I began to speak, and it was some
minutes before I could obtain a hearing. This is the only speech in
which I have inserted the applause, and it is only done here because
the interruptions are also quoted. The report is reproduced exactly as
it appeared at the time in order that the reader may form his own
opinion upon the subject.

The following press dispatch appeared in the morning papers of
September 3:

    YALE STUDENTS CRITICISED.

    Muskogee, I.T., Sept. 29.--At a mass meeting of the Cherokees,
    Creeks, Choctaws and Seminoles, held here yesterday, the following
    resolution was unanimously adopted:

    Resolved, that we contemplate with deep regret the recent insulting
    treatment of William J. Bryan by students of a college in the land
    of the boasted white man's civilization, and we admonish all
    Indians who think of sending their sons to Yale that association
    with such students could but prove hurtful alike to their morals
    and their progress toward the higher standard of civilization.


THE "SUN" DEFENDS THE YALE STUDENTS.

The New York Sun came to the defense of the boys in an editorial, from
which the following is an extract:

    What did these students really do? On the day that Yale University
    opened its new college year, Bryan came to New Haven and prepared
    to address a great crowd at the green adjacent to which are the
    college buildings of the center of university life, in a town of
    which the university is the great and distinguishing feature. The
    students gathered in strong force, as was natural. Practically they
    were on their own ground. They expressed their feelings against
    repudiation with the vigor and vociferousness of youth; and they
    had a right to do it.

    They ought to have done it; and the sentiment to which they gave
    utterance was honorable to them. The boys made a great noise,
    cheering for McKinley and yelling and jeering at repudiation, so
    that Mr. Bryan could not be heard for several minutes. If they had
    applauded him incessantly for even a full half hour, would there
    have been any complaint of their preventing him from starting out
    in his speech? Has not a crowd in the open air as much right to
    hiss as to cheer? At what period in our history was that privilege
    taken from Americans? These dissenting students, the reports agree,
    did not offer any personal violence to Mr. Bryan or anybody else.
    They did not throw rotten eggs at him or otherwise assail his
    dignity, but merely shouted their college cry and yelled
    derisively. They did not like the cause the speaker represented.
    They detested and despised both it and him, and they made known
    their feelings noisily.


Speech Concluding Debate on the Chicago Platform.

Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Convention: I would be presumptuous,
indeed, to present myself against the distinguished gentlemen to whom
you have listened if this were a mere measuring of abilities; but this
is not a contest between persons. The humblest citizen of the land,
when clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the
hosts of error. I come to speak to you in defense of a cause as holy as
the cause of liberty--the cause of humanity.

When this debate is concluded, a motion will be made to lay upon the
table the resolution offered in commendation of the administration, and
also the resolution offered in condemnation of the administration. We
object to bringing this question down to the level of persons. The
individual is but an atom; he is born, he acts, he dies; but principles
are eternal; and this has been a contest over a principle.

Never before in the history of this country has there been witnessed
such a contest as that through which we have just passed. Never before
in the history of American politics has a great issue been fought out
as this issue has been, by the voters of a great party. On the fourth
of March, 1895, a few Democrats, most of them members of Congress,
issued an address to the Democrats of the nation, asserting that the
money question was the paramount issue of the hour; declaring that a
majority of the Democratic party had the right to control the action of
the party on this paramount issue; and concluding with the request that
the believers of free coinage of silver in the Democratic party should
organize, take charge of, and control the policy of the Democratic
party. Three months later, at Memphis, an organization was perfected
and the silver Democrats went forth openly and courageously proclaiming
their belief, and declaring that, if successful, they would crystallize
into a platform the declaration they had made. Then began the conflict.
With a zeal approaching the zeal which inspired the crusaders who
followed Peter the Hermit, our silver Democrats went forth from victory
unto victory until they are now assembled, not to discuss, not to
debate, but to enter up the judgment already rendered by the plain
people of this country. In this contest brother has been arrayed
against brother, father against son. The warmest ties of love,
acquaintance and association have been disregarded; old leaders have
been cast aside when they have refused to give expression to the
sentiments of those whom they would lead, and new leaders have sprung
up to give direction to this cause of truth. Thus has the contest been
waged, and we have assembled here under as binding and solemn
instructions as were ever imposed upon representatives of the people.

We do not come as individuals. As individuals we might have been glad
to compliment the gentleman from New York (Senator Hill,) but we know
that the people for whom we speak would never be willing to put him in
a position where he could thwart the will of the Democratic party. I
say it was not a question of persons; it was a question of principle,
and it is not with gladness, my friends, that we find ourselves brought
into conflict with those who are now arrayed on the other side.

The gentleman who preceded me (ex-Governor Russell) spoke of the State
of Massachusetts; let me assure him that not one present in all this
convention entertains the least hostility to the people of the State of
Massachusetts, but we stand here representing people who are the
equals, before the law, of the greatest citizens in the State of
Massachusetts. When you (turning to the gold delegates) come before us
and tell us that we are about to disturb your business interests, we
reply that you have disturbed our business interests by your course.

We say to you that you have made the definition of a business man too
limited in its application. The man who is employed for wages is as
much a business man as his employer; the attorney in a country town is
as much a business man as the corporation counsel in a great
metropolis; the merchant at the cross-roads store is as much a business
man as the merchant of New York; the farmer who goes forth in the
morning and toils all day--who begins in the spring and toils all
summer--and who by the application of brain and muscle to the natural
resources of the country creates wealth, is as much a business man as
the man who goes upon the board of trade and bets upon the price of
grain; the miners who go down a thousand feet into the earth, or climb
two thousand feet upon the cliffs, and bring forth from their hiding
places the precious metals to be poured into the channels of trade are
as much business men as the few financial magnates who, in a back room,
corner the money of the world. We come to speak for this broader class
of business men.

Ah, my friends, we say not one word against those who live upon the
Atlantic coast, but the hardy pioneers who have braved all the dangers
of the wilderness, who have made the desert to blossom as the rose--the
pioneers away out there (pointing to the West), who rear their children
near to Nature's heart, where they can mingle their voices with the
voices of the birds--out there where they have erected schoolhouses for
the education of their young, churches where they praise their Creator,
and cemeteries where rest the ashes of their dead--these people, we
say, are as deserving of the consideration of our party as any people
in this country. It is for these that we speak. We do not come as
aggressors. Our war is not a war of conquest; we are fighting in the
defense of our homes, our families, and posterity. We have petitioned,
and our petitions have been scorned; we have entreated, and our
entreaties have been disregarded; we have begged, and they have mocked
when our calamity came. We beg no longer; we entreat no more; we
petition no more. We defy them.

The gentleman from Wisconsin has said that he fears a Robespierre. My
friends, in this land of the free you need not fear that a tyrant will
spring up from among the people. What we need is an Andrew Jackson to
stand, as Jackson stood, against the encroachments of organized wealth.

They tell us that this platform was made to catch votes. We reply to
them that changing conditions make new issues; that the principles upon
which Democracy rests are as everlasting as the hills, but that they
must be applied to new conditions as they arise. Conditions have
arisen, and we are here to meet those conditions. They tell us that the
income tax ought not to be brought in here; that it is a new idea. They
criticize us for the criticism of the Supreme Court of the United
States. My friends, we have not criticized; we have simply called
attention to what you already know. If you want criticisms, read the
dissenting opinions of the court. There you will find criticisms. They
say that we have passed an unconstitutional law; we deny it. The income
tax law was not unconstitutional when it was passed; it was not
unconstitutional when it went before the Supreme Court for the first
time; it did not become unconstitutional until one of the judges
changed his mind, and we cannot be expected to know when a judge will
change his mind. The income tax is just. It simply intends to put the
burden of government justly upon the backs of the people. I am in favor
of an income tax. When I find a man who is not willing to bear his
share of the burdens of the government which protects him, I find a man
who is unworthy to enjoy the blessings of a government like ours.

They say that we are opposing national bank currency; it is true. If
you will read what Thomas Benton said, you will find he said that, in
searching history, he could find but one parallel to Andrew Jackson;
that was Cicero, who destroyed the conspiracy of Cataline and saved
Rome. Benton said that Cicero only did for Rome what Jackson did for us
when he destroyed the bank conspiracy and saved America. We say in our
platform that we believe that the right to coin and issue money is a
function of government. We believe it. We believe that it is a part of
sovereignty, and can no more with safety be delegated to private
individuals than we could afford to delegate to private individuals the
power to make penal statutes or levy taxes. Mr. Jefferson, who was once
regarded as good Democratic authority, seems to have differed in
opinion from the gentleman who has addressed us on the part of the
minority. Those who are opposed to this proposition tell us that the
issue of paper money is a function of the bank, and that the Government
ought to go out of the banking business. I stand with Jefferson rather
than with them, and tell them, as he did, that the banks ought to go
out of the governing business.

They complain about the plank which declares against life tenure in
office. They have tried to strain it to mean that which is does not
mean. What we oppose by that plank is the life tenure which is being
built up in Washington, and which excludes from participation in
official benefits the humbler members of society.

Let me call your attention to two or three important things. The
gentleman from New York says that he will propose an amendment to the
platform providing that the proposed change in our monetary system
shall not affect contracts already made. Let me remind you that there
is no intention of affecting those contracts which according to present
laws are made payable in gold; but if he means to say that we cannot
change our monetary system without protecting those who have loaned
money before the change was made, I desire to ask him where, in law or
in morals, he can find justification for not protecting the debtors
when the act of 1873 was passed, if he now insists that we must protect
the creditors.

He says he will also propose an amendment which will provide for the
suspension of free coinage if we fail to maintain the parity within a
year. We reply that when we advocate a policy which we believe will be
successful, we are not compelled to raise a doubt as to our own
sincerity by suggesting what we shall do if we fail. I ask him, if he
would apply his logic to us, why he does not apply it to himself. He
says he wants the country to try to secure an international agreement.
Why does he not tell us what he is going to do if he fails to secure an
international agreement? There is more reason for him to do that than
there is for us to provide against the failure to maintain the parity.
Our opponents have tried for twenty years to secure an international
agreement, and those are waiting for it most patiently who do not want
it at all.

And now, my friends, let me come to the paramount issue. If they ask us
why it is that we say more on the money question than we say upon the
tariff question, I reply that, if protection has slain its thousands,
the gold standard has slain its tens of thousands. If they ask us why
we do not embody in our platform all the things that we believe in, we
reply that when we have restored the money of the Constitution all
other necessary reforms will be possible; but that until this is done
there is no other reform that can be accomplished.

Why is it that within three months such a change has come over the
country? Three months ago, when it was confidently asserted that those
who believe in the gold standard would frame our platform and nominate
our candidates, even the advocates of the gold standard did not think
that we could elect a president. And they had good reason for their
doubt, because there is scarcely a State here today asking for the gold
standard which is not in the absolute control of the Republican party.
But note the change. Mr. McKinley was nominated at St. Louis upon a
platform which declared for the maintenance of the gold standard until
it can be changed into bimetallism by international agreement. Mr.
McKinley was the most popular man among the Republicans, and three
months ago everybody in the Republican party prophesied his election.
How is it today? Why, the man who was once pleased to think that he
looked like Napoleon--that man shudders today when he remembers that he
was nominated on the anniversary of the battle of Waterloo. Not only
that, but as he listens he can hear with ever-increasing distinctness
the sound of the waves as they beat upon the lonely shores of St.
Helena.

Why this change? Ah, my friends, is not the reason for the change
evident to any one who will look at the matter? No private character,
however pure, no personal popularity, however great, can protect from
the avenging wrath of an indignant people a man who will declare that
he is in favor of fastening the gold standard upon this country, or who
is willing to surrender the right of self-government and place the
legislative control of our affairs in the hands of foreign potentates
and powers.

We go forth confident that we shall win. Why? Because upon the
paramount issue of this campaign there is not a spot of ground upon
which the enemy will dare to challenge battle. If they tell us that the
gold standard is a good thing, we shall point to their platform and
tell them that their platform pledges the party to get rid of the gold
standard and substitute bimetallism. If the gold standard is a good
thing, why try to get rid of it? I call your attention to the fact that
some of the very people who are in this convention today and who tell
us that we ought to declare in favor of international bimetallism--thereby
declaring that the gold standard is wrong and that the principle of
bimetallism is better--these very people four months ago were open and
avowed advocates of the gold standard, and were then telling us that we
could not legislate two metals together, even with the aid of all the
world. If the gold standard is a good thing, we ought to declare in
favor of its retention and not in favor of abandoning it; and if the
gold standard is a bad thing why should we wait until other nations are
willing to help us to let go? Here is the line of battle, and we care
not upon which issue they force the fight; we are prepared to meet them
on either issue or on both. If they tell us that the gold standard is
the standard of civilization, we reply to them that this, the most
enlightened of all the nations of the earth, has never declared for a
gold standard and that both the great parties this year are declaring
against it. If the gold standard is the standard of civilization, why,
my friends, should we not have it. If they come to meet us on that
issue we can tell them that they will search the pages of history in
vain to find a single instance where the common people of any land have
ever declared themselves in favor of the gold standard. They can find
where the holders of fixed investments have declared for a gold
standard, but not where the masses have.

Mr. Carlisle said in 1878 that this was a struggle between "the idle
holders of idle capital" and "the struggling masses, who produce the
wealth and pay the taxes of the country"; and, my friends, the question
we are to decide is: Upon which side will the Democratic party fight;
upon the side of "the idle holders of idle capital" or upon the side of
"the struggling masses?" That is the question which the party must
answer first, and then it must be answered by each individual
hereafter. The sympathies of the Democratic party, as shown by the
platform, are on the side of the struggling masses who have ever been
the foundation of the Democratic party. There are two ideas of
government. There are those who believe that, if you will only
legislate to make the well-to-do prosperous, their prosperity will leak
through on those below. The Democratic idea, however has been that if
you legislate to make the masses prosperous, their prosperity will find
its way up through every class which rests upon them.

You come to us and tell us that the great cities are in favor of the
gold standard; we reply that the great cities rest upon our broad and
fertile prairies. Burn down your cities and leave our farms and your
cities will spring up again as if by magic; but destroy our farms and
the grass will grow in the streets of every city in the country.

My friends, we declare that this nation is able to legislate for its
own people on every question, without waiting for the aid or consent of
any other nation on earth; and upon that issue we expect to carry every
State in the Union. I shall not slander the inhabitants of the fair
State of Massachusetts nor the inhabitants of the State of New York by
saying that, when they are confronted with the proposition, they will
declare that this nation is not able to attend to its own business. It
is the issue of 1776 over again. Our ancestors, when but three millions
in number, had the courage to declare their political independence of
every other nation; shall we, their descendants, when we have grown to
seventy millions, declare that we are less independent than our
forefathers? No, my friends, that will never be the verdict of our
people. Therefore, we care not upon what lines the battle is fought. If
they say bimetallism is good, but that we cannot have it until other
nations help us, we reply that, instead of having a gold standard
because England has, we will restore bimetallism, and then let England
have bimetallism because the United States has it. If they dare to come
out in the open field and defend the gold standard as a good thing, we
will fight them to the uttermost. Having behind us the producing masses
of the nation and the world, supported by the commercial interests, the
laboring interests, and the toilers everywhere, we will answer their
demand for a gold standard by saying to them: You shall not press down
upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns, you shall not crucify
mankind upon a cross of gold.


SPEECHES OF C. A. BOGARDUS.

"I don't know much about the tariff | "I don't know much about the
question, but I think I know enough | money question, but it appears
to know that if we buy $20.00 worth | to me that if under the gold
of rails of a foreigner, the        | standard we borrow $20,000,000
foreigner will have the money and   | of a foreigner, when we pay it
we will have the rails, but if we   | back the foreigner will have the
make the rails in America and buy   | money and the interest, too, but
them of an American, America will   | if we coin the silver (which
have the money and the rails, too." | is an American product) into
                                    | American dollars, borrow
                  ABRAHAM LINCOLN.  | $20,000,000 of an American,
                                    | when we pay it back America will
                                    | have the money and the interest,
                                    | too."
                                    |
                                    |              C. A. BOGARDUS.
                                    |
                                    |
"Nothing should ever tempt          | "I hope nothing ever will tempt
us--nothing will ever tempt us      | us to scale the debt of the
to scale down the sacred  debt      | nation through a legal
 of the nation through a            | technicality. Whatever may
 legal technicality. Whatever may   | be the language of the contract
 be the language of the contract    | the United States should
the United States will discharge    | discharge its obligations
all its obligations in the          | according to the contract."
currency recognized as the best     |
throughout the civilized world      |              C. A. BOGARDUS.
at the time of payment."            |
                                    |
                     WM. MCKINLEY.  |
                                    |
                                    |
"This word to all when I am dead,   | "This word to all while we are
Be sure you are right, then go      |     alive,
    ahead."                         | Be sure we are right, then let
                                    |     drive."
                   DAVID CROCKETT.  |
                                    |              C. A. BOGARDUS.


SPEECHES OF C. A. BOGARDUS

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT FARMINGTON, IOWA, NOVEMBER 20, 1897, BY C. A.
BOGARDUS.

SUBJECT: HOW TO READ.

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:--

It is not so much the amount of reading that educates us, as it is what
we read and the manner it is done that benefits us, for as Poor Richard
says: "The used key is always bright," so the well-read book always
shows the handling. A small well chosen library carefully read is of
vastly more benefit than the large, poorly chosen, unread volumes that
adorn the shelves of many homes. Yet I am not sure but that poorly
chosen books are better not read than read. A learned doctor once said:
"It is not what we eat that sustains life, but is what we digest."

We might well paraphrase his words and say it is not what we read that
educates us, but it is what we understand. For what we want is not
learning, but knowledge; that is the ability to make learning answer
its true end as a quickener of intelligence and widener of the
intellectual field.

We should not read to contradict; nor to believe and take for granted;
nor to find talk and discourse; but to weigh and consider. This being
self-evident, we should ever remember that whatever is worth reading at
all is worth reading well. Hence, inasmuch as reading matter is always
the expression of some author's thoughts, it follows that the object of
reading at all is to learn the thoughts of the writer. So we may well
aver that to read understandingly requires thought and industry. For
reading availeth not unless done understandingly. Therefore, an article
is not read, in the full sense of the word, until it is understood.

I will close by reading an article from an old scrap-book. When it is
read I trust it will accomplish a double mission, viz: that we more
thoroughly comprehend the necessity of putting thought into our
reading; and that the real virtue in thought is acting in harmony with
the knowledge or right. The article to which I refer is entitled "An
Angel in a Saloon." I will now read it:

"One afternoon in the month of June, 1870, a lady in deep mourning,
followed by a little child, entered one of the fashionable saloons in
the city of N----. The writer happened to be passing at the time, and
prompted by curiosity, followed her in, to see what would ensue.
Stepping up to the bar, and addressing the proprietor, who happened to
be present, she said:

"'Sir, can you assist me? I have no home, no friends, and am not able
to work.'

"He glanced at her and then at the child, with a mingled look of
curiosity and pity. Evidently he was much surprised to see a woman in
such a place begging, but without asking any questions gave her some
change, and turning to those present, he said:

"'Gentlemen, here is a lady in distress. Can't some of you help her a
little?'

"They cheerfully acceded to the request, and soon a purse of two
dollars was made up, and put in her hand.

"'Madam,' said the gentleman who gave her the money, 'why do you come
to a saloon? It isn't a proper place for a lady, and why are you driven
to such a step?'

"'Sir,' said the lady, 'I know it isn't a proper place for a lady to be
in, and you ask me why I am driven to such a step. I will tell you in
one short word,' pointing to a bottle behind the counter, labelled
whiskey, 'that is what brought me here--whiskey!'

"'I was once happy and surrounded with all the luxuries that wealth
could procure, with a fond, indulgent husband. But in an evil hour he
was tempted, and not possessing the will to resist the temptation,
fell, and in one short year my dream of happiness was over, my home was
forever desolate, and the kind husband, and the wealth that some called
mine lost, lost, never to return, and all by the accursed wine cup.

"'You see before you only the wreck of my former self, homeless and
friendless, with nothing left me in this world but this little child,'
and weeping bitterly, she affectionately caressed the golden curls that
shaded a face of exquisite loveliness. Regaining her composure, and
turning to the proprietor of the saloon, she continued:

"'Sir, the reason why I occasionally enter a place like this is to
implore those who deal in the deadly poison to desist, to stop a
business that spreads desolation, ruin, poverty and starvation. Think
one moment of your own loved ones, and then imagine them in the
situation I am in. I appeal to your better nature, I appeal to your
heart,--for I know you possess a kind one,--to retire from a business
so ruinous to your patrons.

"'Did you know the money you take across the bar is the same as taking
the bread out of the mouths of the famished wives and children of your
customers? That it strips the clothing from their backs, deprives them
of all the comforts of this life and throws unhappiness, misery, crime,
and desolation in their once happy homes? Oh! sir, I implore, beseech,
and pray you to retire from a business you blush to own you are engaged
in before your fellow-men, and enter one that will not only be
profitable to yourself but your fellow-creatures also. You will excuse
me if I have spoken too plainly, but I could not help it when I thought
of the misery, the unhappiness, and the suffering it has caused me.'

"'Madam, I am not offended,' he answered in a voice husky with emotion,
'but I thank you from the bottom of my heart for what you have said.'

"'Mamma,' said the little child, who meantime had been spoken to by
some of the gentlemen present, taking hold of her mother's hand, 'these
gentlemen wish me to sing "Little Bessie" for them. Shall I do so?'

"They all joined in the request, and placing her in a chair she sang,
in a sweet childish voice, the following beautiful song:

    "'Out in the gloomy night, sadly I roam,
    I have no mother dear, no pleasant home;
    Nobody cares for me, no one would cry
    Even if poor little Bessie should die.
    Weary and tired I've been wandering all day,
    Asking for work, but I'm too small, they say;
    On the damp ground I must now lay my head;
    Father's a drunkard and mother is dead.

    "'We were so happy till father drank rum,
    Then all our sorrow and trouble begun;
    Mother grew pale and wept every day,
    Baby and I were too hungry to play;
    Slowly they faded till one summer night
    Found their dead faces all silent and white;
    Then with big tears slowly dropping I said,
    "Father's a drunkard and mother is dead."

    "'Oh! If the temperance men only could find
    Poor, wretched father and talk very kind;
    If they would stop him from drinking, then
    I should be so very happy again.
    Is it too late, temperance men? Please try
    Or poor little Bessie must soon starve and die!
    All day long I've been begging for bread,--
    Father's a drunkard and mother is dead.'

"The game of billiards was left unfinished, the cards thrown aside and
the unemptied glass remained on the counter; all had pressed near, some
with pity-beaming eyes, entranced with the musical voice and beauty of
the child, who seemed better fitted to be with angels above than in
such a place.

"The scene I shall never forget to my dying day, and the sweet cadence
of her musical voice still rings in my ears, and every word of the song
as it dropped from her lips sank deep into the hearts of those gathered
around her.

"With her golden hair falling carelessly around her little shoulders,
and looking so trustingly and confidingly upon the gentlemen around
her, her beautiful eyes illuminated with a light that seemed not of
this earth, she formed a picture of purity and innocence worthy the
genius of a poet or painter.

"At the close of the song many were weeping; men who had not shed a
tear for years, now wept like children. One young man who had resisted
with scorn the pleadings of a loving mother and the entreaties of
friends to strive to lead a better life, to desist from a course that
was wasting his fortune and ruining his health, now approached the
child, and taking both hands in his, while tears streamed down his
cheeks, exclaimed with deep emotion:

"'God bless you, my little angel! You have saved me from ruin and
disgrace, from poverty and a drunkard's grave. If there are angels on
earth, you are one! God bless you! God bless you! and putting a bill
into the hands of the mother said, 'Please accept this trifle as a
token of my regard and esteem, for your little girl has done me a
kindness I can never repay; and remember, whenever you are in want, you
will find in me a true friend,' at the same time giving her his name
and address.

"Taking her child by the hand she turned to go, but pausing at the
door, said:

"'God bless you, gentlemen! Accept the heartfelt thanks of a poor,
friendless woman for the kindness and courtesy you have shown her.'
Before any one could reply she was gone.

"A silence of several minutes ensued, which was broken by the
proprietor, who exclaimed:

"'Gentlemen, that lady was right, and I have sold my last glass of
whiskey; if any one of you want more you will have to go elsewhere.'

"'And I have drank my last glass of whiskey,' said a young man who had
long been given up as utterly beyond the reach of those who had a deep
interest in his welfare, as sunk too low ever to reform."


SPEECH AT DECATUR, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 22, 1896.

The occasion being a rally in which the Hon. B. F. Shively, candidate
for governor, and John R. Brunt, candidate for congress, had spoken
over three hours.

The Indianapolis Sentinel said of Mr. Bogardus that "he held the
closest attention throughout, and closed _amid great cheers and cries
of go ahead_."

MR. BOGARDUS SPOKE AS FOLLOWS:

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:--That phase of the money question
which is before the American people today and upon which we will vote
in November is merely shall we, or shall we not, open the mints to the
free and unlimited coinage of silver as they are now open to the
coinage of gold. Concurrent with, and as a part of the phase, is the
declaration that when the metals are so coined that the money made
therefrom shall be treated equally under the law, and that the
Democratic idea of equal rights to each and special privileges to
neither, shall be again incorporated in our national laws. A great many
rash, and it seems to me foolish things, are being said concerning the
independent bimetallists of our country, to charge the free coinage
people with being repudiators and anarchists, is but to put the party
making such false statement in the position of a base misrepresenter,
and sooner or later the charge must slap its maker in the face. There
is no doubt in my mind, but that there is a party in this country who
is advocating repudiation, but it is not the Democratic party; it is
the Republican party that is advocating it. Webster says repudiation is
the act of rejecting or refusing. If a party desires to pay the
national debt according to contract it certainly is not advocating
repudiation, but if a party desires to violate the contract it desires
to repudiate. Now, my friends, let us get right at the facts, before we
can tell who the repudiators are; we must know what the contract is,
and then we must know what the contesting parties want to do in the
premises. I will read you a copy of a U.S. bond:

    (COPY OF U.S. BOND.)

    The United States of America are indebted to the bearer in the sum
    of One Hundred Dollars.

    This bond is issued in accordance with the provisions of an act of
    congress, entitled, "An act to authorize the refunding of the
    National Debt," approved July 14th, 1870, amended by an act
    approved January 20th, 1871, and is redeemable at the pleasure of
    the United States, after the first day of July, A.D., 1907, in
    coin of the standard value of the United States on said July 14th,
    1870, with interest in such coin from the day of date hereof, at
    the rate of four per cent per annum, payable quarterly, on the
    first day of October, January, April and July of each year. The
    principal and interest are exempt from the payment of all taxes or
    duties of the United States, as well as from taxation in any form,
    by or under State, Municipal or local authority.

    Washington, July 1st, 1877.

    J. M. DOTY, Register of the Treasury.

    Entered (G. W. B.)    (Recorded W. S.)

Now I am not trying to mislead you when I say that a party who proposes
to pay that bond according to contract is not a repudiator, nor am I
misleading when I say that a party who attempts to prevent its payment
according to contract is a repudiator. The bond, according to its own
wording, is payable in coin of the standard value of July 14, 1870.
When we learn exactly what that coin is we will then, like Saul of
Tarsus, see things in a new light. By the law that was in force on that
date silver or gold could be coined into standard money and their
standard value was their legal value. The Democratic party desires the
privilege of coining the metals according to that law, and then paying
the bonds with those coins according to that law. No repudiation there.
No, not a particle. (Cheers.) The Republicans do not want to coin
silver and gold according to that law, and they do not want to allow
the debts to be paid in gold or silver money according to that law.
There is repudiation there, yes lots of it; in fact, it is nothing but
repudiation. (Great applause.) Do you want to hear about the anarchy
part of this question? (Cries of yes! yes!) Very well, let us examine
along that line. The Democrats say that the government can coin money
and regulate its value and they will accept it in payment of a debt. No
anarchy there; no, not a bit. (Laughter.) The Republicans admit that
the government can coin money and regulate its value and make it a
legal tender. But they openly declare that they won't take it in the
payment of a debt unless they want to. There is anarchy there in
abundance, yes in great abundance. (Great and continued applause.)

Let me ask the Republicans if it is not a little strange that a law
savored with such element of anarchy and repudiation, should have been
in full force in America from 1792 to 1873, a period of eighty-one
years, and have pleased the people so well, that during all that time
no political party ever openly advocated its repeal? Is it not, I ask,
strange that George Washington, who fought so bravely for independence,
should have signed a law for repudiation and anarchy? Strange, ah, very
strange! is it not, that General Grant, when he discovered that he had
unknowingly signed a bill for the repeal of the law that they now say
would be repudiation, should have said he did not know that the law
demonetized silver, and if he had known it he would have suffered his
right arm to have been cut off before he would have signed the law.

My friends, not only do the Republicans advocate repudiation, but it
also by proposing a scarce money system is advocating confiscation of
the debtor's property, for with a large money basis, money is easier to
get than with a small money basis. Careful thought will show that easy
money means high prices, and when money is scarce and hard to get
prices are low; it therefore follows that President Lincoln was correct
when he said: "If a government contract a debt and then contract the
money before the debt is paid, it is the most heinous crime a
government can commit against its people."

We may boast long and strong of the great wisdom of our diplomats and
the brilliancy of our statesmen, but whatever they may say will never
overshadow the fact that in a people's government the people must vote
understandingly, and when we thoroughly analyze this charge of
repudiation and anarchy, we will see that it is the same old trick of
the burglar crying stop thief to the honest man, while the rogue
himself escapes.

Much is being said about our money being good abroad, and great fear is
expressed by the banker's party that our silver money under bimetallism
will only be worth fifty cents on the dollar in foreign countries. Now,
my friends, let us use common sense, and we will easily solve the
problem as to how to make our silver dollars good abroad, that feature
of the question can be accomplished by following this plain easy
method, namely, the next time a foreigner presents a bond of a few
million dollars for payment, have Uncle Sam hand the gentleman the
amount in silver dollars, then let the foreigner attend to making them
good abroad. It will be to his interest to procure a law making the
silver good in his own country. Now, I want to ask you in the name of
common sense, would not you think the foreigner crazy if when we paid
him in our silver, he would go to his own country and cry down the very
money we had paid him? Oh, no, he would not do that; he would use his
influence to have a law passed in favor of bimetallism in his own
country.

But you may urge that he might not succeed in his effort, and he would
have a lot of half value American dollars on hand that would not be
good abroad. Very well, the worst thing that could possibly happen to
us under circumstances of that kind would be when the foreigner found
he could not pass the money abroad he would discover all of a sudden
that the money is good in America, and as a matter of fact he would
spend his money where it would be taken for goods. So we see that we
would thus either force a recognition of our money abroad or else we
would control the markets of the world. Then in reality we would pay
our debts abroad in American produce at a fair price and keep our money
at home, where it belongs, as a medium of exchange. And we would then
realize the wisdom of the Hon. Wm. E. Gladstone when he said to the
English Parliament that "so far as England was concerned bimetallism to
them as a creditor country would compel them to pay more for American
produce," but the grand old man in his frank and honest manner added,
"so far as America is concerned, it would immediately give her control
of the markets of the world."

When we lament the fact that under our present financial system the
rich are growing richer and the poor are becoming poorer day by day, we
hear some one say, "that is true, but the law of the survival of the
fittest is to blame for those facts." If you will pardon me for
seemingly diverging from the subject I will say something in regard to
the abuse of the law of the survival of the fittest. Yes, I admit that
under any law, and under any conditions, those who are best suited to
the conditions under which they live will get on better than those who
are not so well suited by nature to combat for existence and
prosperity. Nature has so laid its plans that, at or near the equator
in the warm climate tropical fruits grow better than they do in
Iceland, while the pine trees, true to nature, thrive best in cold
regions. The Polar bear enjoys the snows of Alaska, but would suffocate
in the tropical heat of Borneo or Sumatra. True to the law of the
survival of the fittest, the elephant and ostrich thrive in sunny
Africa, but would perish in Norway's winters. These things are true,
because all nature is in perfect harmony with itself. When carefully
considered, we find that the reason some things prosper in one place
and perish in another is merely that they are fitted for the conditions
in which they thrive and are unfitted for the vicious surrounding in
which they perish. The lion and tiger prosper among vicious beasts, but
the child and lamb survive better where love, mercy and righteousness
reign.

Let us suppose that Christ and John L. Sullivan were contesting for the
pugilistic championship under London prize ring rules, most assuredly
Sullivan would win in the first round. But let us change the conditions
and make the place of contest the pulpit of a Quaker church, and the
subject: "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not,
for such is the kingdom of heaven," don't you think Sullivan would be
quite out of place and Christ would be the victor on that occasion?
Suppose a fine pasture, bountiful with grass and water should be well
stocked with a few hundred sheep and lambs and lurking around in hidden
nooks of the field were a dozen or more Norway wolves; the sheep and
the wolves are in the same pasture, I want to ask you, my friend, what
kind of stock do you think the farmer will have in that pasture in a
few days if he says to himself the law of the survival of the fittest
will protect those sheep if they are fit to live, and if they can't
survive then I will shear the wolves for my winter's wool. My friends,
if that farmer ever got any wool from those wolves he would have to get
it from their stomachs; he couldn't shear it from their backs, because
it don't grow on that class of animals. What would you think of the
farmer's good wife if after the wolves had killed and sucked the warm
blood of the last lamb she would in her supreme recognition of the law
of the survival of the fittest take from her child's grave the
tombstone that had carved thereon the image of a little lamb at rest
under the weeping willow and place in its stead a statue of marble with
the life-sized image of a wolf with the blood of a lamb streaming from
his teeth? No, that would not be the act of a sane mother, nor would
the farmer willingly leave the sheep in the pasture with no other
protection but the wolves.

Under laws recognizing viciousness the most vicious will survive best.

Our country and her people are industrious and willing, but we are in
debt, having promised to pay American dollars that by the vicious
system of contracting the money under the gold standard which makes
dollars harder and harder to get, which is only another way of
expressing the fact that wages and produce will go lower year by year
under the system of greed that is accompanying the gold standard in all
countries. But one thing can help the masses of our people out of the
bondage of debt, and that thing is higher prices for labor and produce.

Higher prices in America will follow either of two causes--foreign
famine and war or bimetallism and an increased volume of money. The
latter is within our control, the former method no one should desire.

Let us not disclaim against the wolves, for scientists tell us that the
shepherd dog that so kindly protects the sheep is a direct descendant
of the wolf, but he has been domesticated by the law of man. So we see
that under the vicious law of the survival of the fittest the wolf as a
master was a sheep destroyer, but under the civilized law of the
survival of the fittest, the descendant of the vicious wolf as we know,
the shepherd dog is a servant of the sheep. Gold is good money, but as
a master it is a tyrant. Let us hitch it side by side with silver and
paper money, put it all under direct control of the government, and the
wealth of this nation will be our servant, but with gold in control our
nation's wealth becomes a hard master.

The other day, while on the train, in conversation with a rich banker,
the subject of the rich and poor came up. He said "there was nothing in
the law that tended to make people rich or poor." His idea was that
individual prosperity came from each man's ability as a financier.
"Why," said he, "don't you know that if the property was all equally
divided among the people, the same people who now have it would get it
again in a very short time?" I asked him if he was willing to change
certain laws about the banking business, then divide the property and
money of the United States equally among the people? He said "he did
not want to have any such thing done." When I asked him to specifically
name his objections to such a transaction, he replied "that it would
not be fair to take what he made and give it to some one who had not
made it." Then when I reminded him that he had said he would have it
all back in a short time, he said that "if the law was changed about
banking he would not have the same chance to get it back that he now
had to keep it." I told him that I agreed with him on his last
statement, but if I should agree with him in his first statement I
could not see how the changed law and division of property would affect
his ability, and if it did affect it, then I said the banking law must
be a part of his ability. Then he replied that "banking laws were
something that our congressmen would attend to." At this part of the
conversation the train stopped and the banker bade me good-by and with
a pleasant smile greeted a crowd that was waiting at the depot to
escort him to the opera house, where he was to make a speech in favor
of a law allowing the banks to issue all the money and retire the
government from the banking business. The fellow was a candidate for
congress.

As the train left the station I took from my valise a little book of
statistics and found that 79 per cent of our Congressmen and 63 per
cent of our Senators were either bankers or bank directors, then I
thought his last remark was true, that our Congressmen would attend to
the banking laws all right, especially from a banker's point of view. I
then thought of a path up the mountain side that was so crooked a
traveler going up would meet himself coming back.

Thanks for your attention.


SPEECH DELIVERED AT JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS, DECEMBER 15, 1897, BY C. A.
BOGARDUS.

OUR FINANCIAL SYSTEM.

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:--I am going to request my hearers
this evening to be not possessed of party prejudice. If there is any
one feature of the human mind that works more disaster to civilization
and humanity, than another, that feature is political partyism made
blind by prejudice. Prejudice blinds the eye to light and benumbs the
mind until reason is shut out. The Bible says, "And if the blind lead
the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."

In examining any proposition we should not proceed to change reasons
and facts to suit our thoughts, but rather remove all prejudice from
our mind and then change our thoughts to agree with the facts. For my
part I would that all voters and their wives and children would form
themselves into a party of political truthseekers. When that is done
humanity, justice and a pure government of all the people, by all the
people and for all the people, will form the armor of our civilization.

But as long as blind partyism prevails men will get into heated
political discussions that only widen the gulf of misunderstanding.
Misleading newspaper articles will make the gulf deeper, and the
cunning hand of plutocracy and coercion will widen the waters of the
gulf into a vast restless ocean, without even the signs of a rainbow to
tell them that the great storm of poverty and human slavery to the
money power, that knows no love, no mercy, no justice or Christianity,
shall not continue forever and anon.

As we stand on a mountain crest and cast our eyes over the wide extent
of country, it is the more prominent features that impress themselves
on our vision. The lesser details, the waving field, the blooming bush,
the evergreen moss, the singing bird and fragrant rose, which attract
the attention and admiration of the immediate bystander, are lost to
our view by the distance. But the range of forest-clad hills, the
winding river, the crystal lake, the wide expanse of fertile plains and
snow-capped mountain peaks, determine the landscape and claim our
attention.

We of the United States are today surrounded by the Anglo-American
civilization of the closing days of the 19th century. Let us from this
height glance along the road of our nation's journey hither. We can at
best only hope to notice the more prominent lines of advance. To
carefully trace the growth of all the departments would not only
greatly exceed the limited time at our command this evening, but would
also confuse us by the multiplicity of subjects demanding our
attention.

When God created man in his own image and placed him on earth, He gave
man dominion over the earth and all the fullness thereof. There is an
old maxim which teaches, that through respect for the giver, we should
not give, barter or sell away a present. God gave the earth and all
that is in it to mankind. May we not here ask, to what mankind was the
earth given? And what is meant by man? It is plain to the student that
by man is meant all mankind, for all time so long as he shall live, for
we find in research of the scripture that "God is not God of the dead,
but of the living." I want to ask you in the name of justice and
humanity, should a great majority of mankind now, in the strongest and
most highly civilized country, give the earth and its abundance to the
money corporations, trusts and combines, that are in reality
transforming our beloved republic into a "Den of Thieves;" or should we
keep possession of the bountiful gift, that our children and the
children of the generations to follow will inherit the land, that was
so graciously presented to all mankind, by an all wise Providence?

One of the uppermost features in our civilization today is our national
medium of exchange, called "money." Reasonable men of all parties agree
that our money should be sound and honest, and limited only in amount
by the necessities and requirements of the citizens of our country, in
striving after a nobler and higher civilization in which the greatest
good to the greatest number shall be the pinnacle of ultimate
achievement.

In June of 1896, the representatives of a great party met in national
convention in the city of St. Louis, Mo., and outlined a party platform
in which we find a plank which says: "We are therefore opposed to the
free coinage of silver, except by international agreement with the
leading commercial nations of the world, which we pledge ourselves to
promote, and until such agreement can be obtained, the existing gold
standard must be preserved."

As we think of and discuss this or any other proposition, the question
foremost in our mind should be: Is that proposition, if adopted, likely
to promote the interest of an independent liberty loving, Democratic
people, or will it, if adopted, work in an opposite direction?

In my judgment, a careful examination of that plank will reveal the
fact that it is hypocritical in the extreme, and in itself makes by its
own declaration, improbable the very thing it pretends to advocate and
pledge itself to support, namely: Bimetallism, by an international
agreement with the leading commercial nations of the world.

There is no business man, farmer or politician who has ever
successfully accomplished any undertaking by adopting the idea most
prominent in this plank, which is declaring bimetallism to be right,
and then saying that we cannot and will not do anything to procure it
if the leading commercial nations of the world do not consent to it.

Let us examine this plank in detail, and see if the general proposition
of waiting for our common enemy to assist us in helping ourselves is
not ridiculous.

We notice that the party in drawing up this plank, says: "That they
pledge themselves to promote bimetallism by agreement;" then in the
next clause, say, "and until such an agreement can be obtained, the
existing gold standard must be preserved."

Let me illustrate: Suppose this gentleman on my right having a horse
fairly worth on the market $100, should say to the young man on my left
that he desired to sell the animal. If the young man wished to buy he
would ask the price of the horse. I ask, what would the owner receive
for his steed, if he should reply, "Well, I ask $100, but if you will
not give that much, I will take $25."

Now, my gold standard friends, do you not know that the purchaser would
take advantage of the seller and only give $25 for the horse.

When the party at St. Louis pledged themselves to promote international
bimetallism, and then asserted, "until such an agreement can be
obtained the existing gold standard must be preserved," they in effect,
like the man with the horse, put their business in the other fellow's
hands; for was not that clause simply another way of saying to the
foreigner, if you will not give us bimetallism we will take the gold
standard, although we prefer the bimetallic standard?

Fellow citizens, I ask you in the name of American independence, does
it not appear as though there was a colored gentleman somewhere in the
background? Let us examine further, and we will see that the colored
man wears a British coat of arms, and has his American office on
Williams street, New York city.

We will make no mistakes in our conclusion if we understand the facts,
and to more clearly appreciate the full international effect, of the
plank under examination, let us draw another picture from human nature.
We will imagine you people of Jacksonville to be a little sporty, and
that you have in your midst a prize fighter of whom you are quite
proud; we will suppose that Springfield has a character of the same
kind, and the St. Louis Athletic club should offer $50,000 as a purse
for a fistic contest between these two champions, $40,000 to be the
reward of the winner and $10,000 to soothe the wounds of the defeated
pugilist. We will suppose the fight is arranged and the men go into
careful training, the time for the mill has at last arrived, the ring
is complete, and all details perfect. A large audience has assembled
and betting is liberally indulged in; of course Jacksonville sports
back their home man. At the appointed hour the contestants enter the
ring. Then you see your Jacksonville man is much the superior in
appearance to the Springfield upstart. Your man being the quicker and
stronger, has a longer reach, and is the more scientific. (America is
quicker and stronger, has a longer reach, and is more scientific than
any other nation on earth.) You feel sure your man will win the fight
on short notice, in fact you almost pity the man from Springfield, to
see that he must compete in a fistic combat with such a giant as the
Jacksonville Gladiator. The referee announces that Marquis of
Queensbury's rules are to govern, he looks at his watch and announces
that in one minute the fight will be on, the fighters raise their hands
to position. When just a few seconds of time still remains before the
slugging is to commence, your Jacksonville man says to his opponent,
hold on, if you don't run, I will. What, I ask you, would you think of
your prize fighter then? Think of the United States training for a
century for supremacy of American self-government over foreign
monarchical governments, then when all things are completed for the
final fight of the survival of the fittest, a great party saying to the
monarchies of Europe, "we know bimetallism is right, but if you will
not consent to it, then we will stick to the gold standard. If you
don't run, we will." (Great laughter and applause.)

Party prejudice prevailed and through the misrepresentations of the
papers and certain unscrupulous politicians the party making those
representations carried the election. International bimetallic
commissioners were sent to the foreign countries to procure this great
international agreement, and did they get it? Facts answer no.

Let me again implore you to lay aside party prejudice and look matters
squarely in the face, and we will immediately see, that not only did
Mr. Wolcott and his party make a signal failure in procuring
international bimetallism, but by the very terms of the St. Louis
platform it was impossible for him to succeed in his alleged purpose.
Now, my friends, let us suppose Mr. Wolcott and his two associates are
in England talking with the rich moneyed men for international
bimetallism and Mr. Wolcott is dealing out sledge-hammer argument in
favor of international bimetallism, using the same argument in England
the Bryan Democrats used in the campaign of 1896 in the United States.
The financial men of England would then say to Mr. Wolcott, did you say
that bimetallism in the United States meant 50-cent dollars? Mr.
Wolcott would answer, "Yes, I said that;" whereupon the Englishman
would say, "Then international bimetallism would mean international
50-cent dollars." Question No. 2. Mr. Wolcott, did not you say
bimetallism in the United States meant repudiation? Yes, would come
from Mr. Wolcott. Then the Englishman would reply, "Would not
international bimetallism mean international repudiation?" Question No.
3. "Mr. Wolcott, did you not tell the people of the United States that
free silver over there meant anarchy and lost confidence?" Again Mr.
Wolcott is forced to admit that was just what he said here in 1896. In
a triumphant air the Englishman would say international free silver
would mean international anarchy and international lost confidence.
(Laughter and applause). If Mr. Wolcott should further continue the
argument, what could the poor fellow say if the Englishman would draw
the Republican platform of '96 on him and read the following: "And
until such agreement can be obtained the existing gold standard must be
preserved." Johnny Bull would add, "You Americans served notice on us
that all we had to do was to stick to the gold standard and you would
also stick to it."

"Now, we money men of England think we can get more bushels of corn,
oats, rye and barley, more days labor of you fellows for what you owe
us under the gold standard than we could under international
bimetallism. We know it is hard on you, but it is the making of us, and
we will stick to the gold standard; and as you said you would stick to
it if we did, all we can do for you, Mr. Wolcott, is to serve you a
fine wine supper, and tell you to return to America and stick to the
gold standard." (Great applause.)

My friends, the most ridiculous proceeding I ever heard of was the
Republican party sending commissioners abroad to procure international
bimetallism with that plank staring them in the face. I want to ask you
if you do not think that if Mr. Wolcott would have taken a carload or
two of the Republican literature of 1896 and handed out the pamphlets
to the Englishmen, saying this is what we think of free silver in the
United States, will you help us to have it by an international action?
Would not that kind of literature hurt the cause instead of helping it?
For my part, I have no objections to the President sending a Senator
from Colorado to the foreign countries to advocate bimetallism, but I
do insist that he sent the wrong senator. Most certainly Mr. Teller
could have gone abroad with a little handful of free silver literature
that was left over in the campaign of '96 and accomplished more, in a
day's honest consistent work, for bimetallism, than could Senator
Wolcott with the tons of gold standard pamphlets published by the
Republican party. (Great applause.)

A noticeable fact is that one of the greatest job lots of political
trickery and deception that was ever attempted in America has been
practiced in the United States since the month of June, 1896.

Later in the season the so-called Gold-standard Democrats conventioned
in Indianapolis; their money plank reads, "We assert the necessity of
such intelligent currency reform as will confine the government to its
legitimate functions, completely separated from the banking business,
and afford to all sections of our country a safe, uniform and elastic
bank currency, under government supervision, measured in volume by the
need of business." Strange as it may seem, while Mr. Wolcott was
abroad, pretendingly for the purpose of procuring bimetallism by
international agreement, the President and Secretary of the Treasury
were working up a scheme to have the gold standard adopted according to
the tenor of the Indianapolis platform. When we consider 7,000,000
voted for international free silver, and 6,500,000 voted for
independent free silver, we see the United States has 13,500,000
bimetallists; only 134,000, or less than one per cent, voted the
Gold-standard Democratic ticket. Yet, my friends, we today find Mr.
Gage trying to overrule the desire of more than ninety-nine per cent
and put into law the will of less than one per cent of our voting
population. And what amount of money do the gold standard people want?
They say they want it safe, uniform and elastic, measured in volume by
the need of business. Will you tell me by whose business they wish to
measure the volume of money? It cannot be the farmers' business and the
merchants' business they would have to measure the volume by, for that
would make a double standard of measurement, and they tell us we cannot
have but one standard of measurement.

Then I ask, whose business will measure the amount under such a law? To
me the answer comes back in reverberating tones repeated with emphasis,
measured in volume according to the bankers' business, of course. Our
philosophers tell us there are two kinds of elasticity--elasticity by
compression and elasticity by expansion. Thus an elastic substance
after being either compressed or expanded when released, returns to its
original shape and size, so when the bankers want money expanded in
volume according to the need of their business, they would expand it,
and whenever their business ends are best accomplished by contraction;
then, of course, contraction is the program with them. While the
government is completely separated from the banking business so they
can furnish no relief, we might compare that system with an alligator
on the banks of a Louisiana river lying out to sun himself; he gets the
bankers' elastic idea in his head, and his upper jaw flies over his
back, and his mouth is twice as large as when it is closed, elasticity
by expansion. (Laughter.) A sweet substance gathers on his open mouth,
and the flies light there to eat it (just as the people will gather
around the bankers for money when there is no other place to procure
it). The flies gather thicker and thicker, and the mouth gets bigger
and bigger, more and more elasticity by expansion; finally the
alligator, like the banker, happens to think that there is another kind
of elasticity, when down comes the upper jaw on the lower jaw and the
flies are caught in the trap, and the Government shall go out of the
banking business to furnish no relief or escape (cries of good, and
cheers). My friends, if I mistake not, every cry of the Republican
party from the time of John C. Fremont until the campaign of 1896 has
been against banks issuing paper money except that the Government was
strictly in the banking business. Have not they always told us, that
when state or other banks issue paper money without the Government in
the banking business to back up the issue, such money in case of a
failure of the issuing bank became wild-cat money, and did they not say
to us wild-cat money made paupers? Now they go squarely back on all
they have taught us on the money question, and advocate the wild-cat
money system themselves according to their own statements. One thing I
will concede is, that the Republicans and gold standard Democrats are
certainly on their past statements entitled to the $1,000,000 offered
by the United States patent office for the invention of a perpetual
motion, would not they have a complete and perpetual motion in their
bank issuing money with the Government completely separate from the
banking business, for we see the bank issue would be made of paper, so
we have the perpetual motion in this simple problem. Rags make paper,
paper makes money, money makes banks, banks make paupers, and paupers
make rags. Rags make paper, paper makes money (great cheer and
laughter).

Now, my friends, let me read you a plank in a platform that contains
the spirit upon which our forefathers freed the thirteen American
colonies from England, the spirit on which their descendants maintained
American liberty and builded from 3,000,000 population along the
Atlantic shores in 1781, a nation of 70,000,000 grand Anglo-Americans,
with their half a hundred states and territories extending from the
rock bound coast of the pine tree state to the golden gates of
California, stretching over a vast area of more than 3,000,000 square
miles, with great cities, towns, villages and hamlets, with our
colleges and universities that are equaled by none in Europe. I will
now read you the money plank of the Chicago platform, which contains
the spirit represented by the statute at New York, of liberty
enlightening the world. It is as follows: "We demand a free and
unlimited coinage of both gold and silver at the present legal ratio of
16 to 1, without waiting for the aid or consent of any other nation. We
demand that the standard silver dollar shall be a full legal tender
equally with gold, for the payment of all debts public and private, and
we favor such legislation as will in the future prevent the
demonetization of any kind of legal tender money by private contract."
While bimetallism is the theme this evening, you will excuse me for
intruding on your time long enough to briefly comment on the spirit of
that plank that shines prominently above all other issues in the
Chicago platform--it is these simple words, "Without waiting for the
aid or consent of any other nation." I want to ask you, what would have
been the result if our forefathers in 1776 had adopted any other spirit
than this? Does not the answer immediately echo that we would be today
English?

History tells us that while the British red coats with their muskets
were invading the colonies, a handful of bold liberty loving men met at
Philadelphia and signed the Declaration of Independence. You may read
that instrument and you will see that it declares for American liberty
from an American point of view, without waiting for the aid or consent
of any other nation. When bold old non-international agreement John
Hancock read that declaration, he made a speech to the multitude in
front of Liberty hall, in which he implored them to throw aside trivial
differences, and on the main question of independence, all good liberty
loving people should hang together. Benjamin Franklin replied: "Yes, we
must all hang together or we will all hang separate." In Franklin's
witticism, I think I can see the solution of our present financial
trouble--the good people of all parties must solve the problem, then we
must all hang together or we will all hang separately to the tail of
the old British lion, and while we voters are thus suspended, the cubs
of that lion will devour the young Anglo-American eagles before they
scarcely have time to scream for mercy.

Not only did that spirit of independence pervade in Philadelphia in
1776, but it was foremost at Bunker Hill. But Benedict Arnold and Major
Andre seemed to have taken a different view, and the former fled to
English assistance, the latter was executed because of his attempt to
do likewise. But the spirit of independence, without waiting for the
consent of any other nation, shone forth like a plumed knight or a
mighty gladiator on the 19th day of October, 1781, at Yorktown, when
the British gave up their swords and surrendered to the liberty loving
fathers of America. Do you think Cornwallis would have surrendered to
Washington if the Colonial Congress had declared that they would
promote independence by international agreement, and until such
agreement could be obtained, the existing will of King George must be
maintained, and if Washington and his army had fought for English
instead of American supremacy?

I want to say to you that it was not the international agreement spirit
that won in the war of 1812 at New Orleans. General Jackson told his
Kentucky riflemen to keep their powder dry and guns well loaded, and
when they were close enough to see the white of the enemies' eyes to
shoot directly between them. History tells us that the third volley
charmed and the British surrendered to the American army once more
without an international agreement.

In the blackest of the dark days of the late rebellion when the
possible, and to a certain extent the seeming probable success of the
confederacy was spreading like an appalling cloud over our country, we
find it on record that the English were preparing their man-of-war and
navy to assist the South when the illustrious Lincoln said, "Hands
off," and it was so; suppose Mr. Lincoln had said to England, "Let us
have an international agreement that you are not to interfere." Why, my
friends, I believe England would have signed such an agreement the day
after Mr. Lincoln had acknowledged the independence of the Southern
States, and not before. We may as well know that the success of a
Republican or Democratic form of government is envied by all the
monarchies or empires where the people have less self-government. The
gold standard monarchies or empires will never, knowingly, do anything
to improve times in a republic and thus create among their subjects a
desire to throw off the monarchial yoke of oppression.

I know that much has been said against the American republic becoming
entangled with the European powers, but I fear that many in treating on
this line do not show the real menace of such an entanglement. We all
know that the laws of the empires and monarchies are in the interest of
the moneyed classes, and we are proud to say that in America our laws
are for the masses.

Let me tell you by way of comparison why we should keep out of an
international agreement entanglement on the money question. I will use
the tariff as an illustration. I care not what your politics may be,
you will all agree with me that there was one redeeming feature in the
McKinley bill. That some good feature was in the Wilson-Gormon act, and
the same quality of goodness today shines forth in the present Dingley
tariff law. Do you ask what that feature is? I answer it is this: That
law was passed by the independent action of the American Congress. If
we do not like it we can repeal it, without waiting for the aid or
consent of any other nation on earth.

Our Government bonds are all payable in coins of the United States of
the standard weight and value of July 14, 1870; that weight was 23.22
grains of gold or 371.25 grains of silver to the dollar. The value of
those coins was that they were a legal tender in the payment of debts.

If we have an international agreement for bimetallism we can not have
it all our own way--the foreigner would be entitled to a voice. Suppose
we would fix the ratio at any other than the ratio of July 14th, 1870.
Then our dollars would no longer be of the weight that the bonds call
for and the foreigner would have the best of us, for our own coins
would not be a legal tender in payment of our bonds. Now suppose we
wanted to repeal that law, could we repeal it by international
agreement? Well, I guess not. The foreigners would never consent to the
repeal of a law that was to their advantage. Therein lies the real
menace of an international agreement even if we could get it. The only
way we could ever get rid of that agreement would be just to back
squarely out, then we might properly be called repudiators.

We often hear it said that the congress of 1792 used great care to put
just a dollar's worth of silver in a silver dollar and dollar's worth
of gold in the gold dollar. Now while it is true that according to the
law of April 12, 1792, a dollar's worth of silver was put in the silver
dollar, the amount of silver became worth a dollar as a creature of
law, and it is not true that the silver dollar became worth a dollar
because of the value of the silver contained in it. That congress made
the dollar just as God made man. God said, "Let us make man," and the
Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. God did not
study and bother his mind about taking a man's worth of dust to make a
man. No, he took some dust of the ground and formed therefrom a man and
by his own authority breathed the breath of life in man's nostrils and
man thus became a living soul. God then gave man legal authority over
the living creatures of the earth and also gave him authority to
replenish the earth. Man's rights came from the power of God.

The constitution says congress shall have power to coin money and
regulate the value thereof. So congress made the dollar as God made
man, and the American congress formed the dollar of the silver and gold
of the earth, put the eagle on one side of the coin and breathed into
that coin the legal tender law, and the bimetallic dollar became a
living soul of prosperity for eighty-one years as long as the silver
and gold were allowed to fly side by side; but when in 1873 the wings
were clipped from the silver and the legal tender breath shut off, then
the gold had to do all the work; it being too weak to do so, adversity
came.

They tell us that law cannot regulate value and that gold never changes
in value. Let us for a moment form ourselves into a party of
truthseekers and look up the record as to that proposition. The law of
April 2nd, 1792, said 371.75 grains of silver could be freely coined
into one dollar, or two halves, or four quarters, or ten dimes, each to
be a legal tender at its face value, if not worn, for any amount; that
law also said 24.75 grains of gold could be coined into coins of the
value of the dollar; of course you understand the gold was in higher
denominations than the dollar. Now let us watch carefully as to whether
or not the law cannot regulate value and that gold never changes. In
1834 the law said 23.20 grains of gold when coined in American money
constituted a dollar. Let me see, the gold has changed all at once and
the law regulates the amount of gold that goes in a dollar. In 1837,
the law requires 23.22 grains of gold to the dollar, another change. In
1853 the law says that no longer shall it require 371.75 grains of
silver to make a dollar's worth of fractional coins, but that 342.22
grains of silver would make two halves, four quarters or ten dimes, and
they should be a legal tender in the payment of debts for $5. In '73
the coinage of the standard silver dollar was stopped by law, and
silver fell in price. In 1878 the Bland-Allison act allowed the coinage
of the standard silver dollar. In 1890 the Sherman act called for more
silver coinage and the price of silver immediately advanced. In 1893
the coinage of silver was again stopped and the price of silver
dropped, hence we see that the law does regulate values, and that gold
does change in value so far even as the dollar is concerned. A teacher
once told Benjamin Franklin that a boy told him, if he would take a tub
weighing 100 pounds and put 500 pounds of water in it, which only about
half filled the tub, the tub and water would weigh 600 pounds, but if
he would put a live fish weighing 100 pounds in the tub, the tub, water
and fish would not weigh more than 600 pounds. Can you explain that
curious contradiction of the law of gravity, asked the teacher of
Franklin. Whereupon Mr. Franklin requested his interrogator to call at
his office next day. Franklin procured a tub weighing 100 pounds, put
in it 500 pounds of water, and the weight was 600 pounds, just as the
boy had told the teacher; then Mr. Franklin added a 100-pound live fish
and the total weight was 700 pounds. The next day the teacher called on
Franklin for his solution of the great problem, whereupon Franklin
replied, there was but one solution to the question. "What is that?"
anxiously inquired the visitor. "Why," replied Franklin, "the boy
lied."

My friends, when they tell us the law cannot regulate value and that
gold never changes, and when we examine the records and see that gold
does change and that law does regulate value, we say there is but one
answer to them, and that is just as Franklin answered the teacher about
the boy.

We hear it said by the Republicans that free silver would drive gold
out of the country; our Democratic friends tell us that free silver
will not drive gold out of the country. So we see on that point people
seem to differ in opinion. For my part I believe that free silver
either will drive the gold out or else it will not. I want to ask the
Republicans to acknowledge for the sake of argument that silver would
not drive the gold out. Now, let us examine the question if silver
don't drive the gold out, and we have a block of gold large enough to
make into $100, and a block of silver sufficiently large to make into a
like amount, if the gold-standard Democratic idea prevails, all the
money we could coin would be the $100 from the gold, for silver could
not be coined, but if bimetallism prevailed we could coin $100 from the
gold and $100 from the silver, making $200, that is, if the silver does
not drive out the gold. But the Republicans may urge that free silver
would drive out the gold by the gold going at a premium over silver,
then we would coin the block of silver into 100 legal tender dollars
and the gold would be exchanged for a block of silver say 25 per cent
larger than the block that drove it out, and we would coin that block
into 125 legal tender dollars, adding it to the silver that stayed at
home, making 225 dollars, just $25 more than we would have if the gold
did not advance to a premium. But they tell us that would be coining
the cheapest metal. Now, honor bright, you Republicans cannot complain
of that for the reason I will presently explain. We often hear it urged
that during the eighty-one years of bimetallism in the United States
only about 8,000,000 silver dollars were coined, and that subsequently
to 1873 more than 400,000,000 have been coined. True, there were only
about 8,000,000 dollar pieces made of the silver metal, but there were
more than $8,000,000 made because of the silver, for as France had a
ratio of 15-1/2 to 1 against our ratio of 16 to 1 our gold stayed at
home and the silver was at a 3 per cent premium over the gold according
to the French ratio, then a $100 block of gold drove a $100 block of
silver to France, and drove from France to America a block of gold
large enough to make $103. So we had our gold made into $100, and the
gold that came from France in exchange for silver made into $103,
making a total of $203, whereas we could only have had $200 if one
metal had not gone at a premium. History, arithmetic and common sense
prove the correctness of this proposition.

Abraham Lincoln once said he did not know much about the tariff
question, but he thought he knew enough to know that if we bought $20
worth of steel rails of a foreigner the foreigner would have the money
and we would have the rails; but if we made the rails in America and
bought them of an American, America would have the money and the rails,
too. Now, my Republican friends, don't you believe that? I do. I may
not know much about the money question, but I think I know enough to
know that if under the gold standard we borrow $20,000,000 of a
foreigner, when we pay it back the foreigner will have the money and
the interest, too, but if we coin the silver, which is an American
product, into legal tender dollars, borrow $20,000,000 of an American,
when we pay it back it kind of seems to me somehow that America will
have the money and the interest, too. What say you, Lincoln
Republicans? But another objection is that we would have a great
commerce destroying flood of silver in this country. Let us examine
that proposition as seekers after the truth. Here comes Mr. Foreigner
with a carload or two of silver, the United States mints coin it into
legal tender American dollars and hands it back to Mr. Foreigner. Now,
Mr. Foreigner will either take that silver money away with him or else
he will leave it here. If he takes it away it will not flood this
country, will it? Well, if he leaves it here he will either give it to
us or buy something with it. Now, if he gives it to us, will not you
Republicans be willing to take your share? Won't you Democrats
willingly receive your share? And, I ask, is there a gold standard
banker in all America who would not, with just a tiny wee bit of
persuading, be willing to take the shares of both Republicans and
Democrats? Now, if Mr. Foreigner should buy something with this great
flood of silver we can see the wisdom of Mr. Gladstone when he said,
"If America should adopt bimetallism they would within six weeks
control the markets of the world."

A favorite expression of our Republican friends is, that because Mexico
does not maintain a parity between gold and silver under bimetallism,
the United States cannot. When a man tells us that we should pity him.
If we examine that question by comparison we will see the party making
such a statement is either not sincere, or else he is not posted on the
relative strength of the United States and Mexico. Records show that
Mexico has 700,000 square miles of land, more than one-half of which is
nearly or quite barren desert or waste land, leaving only about 350,000
miles of arable land, 4,981 miles of railway, 27,861 miles of telegraph
line and a population of 10,000,000 Indians and Spaniards. The United
States has 3,460,000 square miles, over two-thirds of which is arable
land, and very productive of the staple articles consumed by the most
enlightened nations of the world. We have 170,000 miles of railway,
780,000 miles of telegraph line, and a population of 72,000,000
Anglo-Americans; thus we see we have over ten times as much arable land
exclusive of Alaska, thirty-four times as much railway, twenty-nine
times as much telegraph line, and over seven times the population of
Mexico. In size, wealth, commerce and science, Mexico is not to be
compared with the United States.

When we compare Mexico with the United States, we are comparing it with
the most gigantic country of the nineteenth century. You can form the
United States into eighteen states each as large as Spain, or
thirty-one states as large as Italy, or sixty-two states as large as
England and Wales. What a mighty confederation of land, water,
commerce, wealth and people is the United States when we come to think
of it. Why, friends, we can take five of the six first-class countries
of Europe--France, Great Britain and Ireland, Germany, Austria and
Italy, then add Mexico--let some mighty smith forge them all together
into one vast empire, and you can lay them all down in the United
States, west of the Hudson river, twice.

Wittingly has it been said that the United States has the natural basis
for the greatest continuous government ever established by man. Mexico
has less than 100 miles of inland navigation, while the United States
has over 35,000 miles. Steam boats can go up the Mississippi, Missouri
and Ohio rivers over 2,500 miles from the Gulf, thus carrying our
seaboard into the very heart of our continent. As to our resources, the
crop of 1879, after feeding our population, furnished for export
283,000,000 bushels of grain. This vast crop was raised on 164,215
square miles, or less than one-twelfth of our arable land. It is
estimated that if all our arable land was under the plow, it would feed
a population of 1,000,000,000 people, and furnish for export
1,000,000,000 bushels of grain food for export. But what can we say of
the people of Mexico and the United States? The difference in our
population is not alone the difference between 10,000,000 in Mexico and
72,000,000 in the United States, but the difference between 10,000,000
Indians and Spaniards and 72,000,000 Anglo-Americans.

Mexicans and Indians are but semi-civilized, and the Spaniards are,
generally speaking, a sluggardly, non-advancing people, while the
Anglo-Americans of the United States are the most highly civilized
people on the earth, wide awake and progressive in science, literature
and mechanical inventions. At a recent exposition in Paris where the
foremost nations of the world were exhibiting for premiums five gold
medals were given for the greatest inventions or discoveries, and how
many came to the United States? Only five; that is all. Now to say that
because Mexico cannot maintain a parity between gold and silver,
America cannot, is just about like saying that a Kentucky race horse
cannot beat an English horse because a Mexican donkey cannot do so. My
friends, our ability to maintain a parity between gold and silver is
our ability to absorb money in our daily and yearly business. Give our
country the increased volume of money that bimetallism will give us
instead of the necessary contracted volume that the gold standard
leaves us, and we will have a genuine lasting wave of prosperity moving
westward from New England, starting the shops at increased wages. That
wave will meet with joy the western prosperity wave that sets in motion
the mining and agricultural interests of a patient and patriotic
people, the eastern and western wave will shake hands with the southern
cotton growers and northern wheat raisers. From the four quarters of
our nation prosperity will spring up from an American point of view
without waiting for the aid or consent of any other country, and
without international agreement. Then will a mighty people standing for
humanity and general prosperity, shout aloud, "We lead, let others
follow." I thank you for your attention. Good night.


WHAT NEXT?

Patrick Henry, the revolutionist, on March 25th, 1775, said: "I have
but one lamp by which my feet are guided and that is the lamp of
Experience. I know of no way of judging of the future but by the past."
Patrick, the Irishman, always said, "our hind sight is better than our
front sight." Right in the beginning let me say that inasmuch as an
open confession is good for the soul, I most emphatically and with one
gulp swallow this doctrine in toto. I take it for granted that a vast
majority will, without much persuasion, acknowledge that our historical
knowledge has been garnered by looking backward.

Experience shows that causes, equal to each other, produce equal
effects; hence to arrive at a rational conclusion as to what must we do
to be saved from Eastern Imperialism or its equal, Western greed,
supported by law, let us look at the United States in retrospect.

My space is limited. I shall bid for your gratitude by being brief.

I consult my watch, a beautiful piece of machinery, and learn that it
is three o'clock; it is July 21st, 1902. It has been raining, or rather
drizzling for about twenty hours. It is an ideal time for reflection.
Near the window where I sit is a large, vacant lot. The grass is
fragrant, its surface is smooth and elevated. I remember viewing the
same lot eight years ago, just after a similar rain to the one that is
now abating. The lot was then a large pond, eighteen inches deep. What
a change labor has made on its surface! Looking another direction, I
see a lot, now covered with water as it was eight years ago. I will
venture the assertion that it will be covered with water a thousand
years hence, unless labor improves it as it has the one just mentioned.

My library contains several volumes devoted entirely to the history of
the United States. They all say that four hundred years ago, what is
now the United States was a vast territory of uncultivated land,
crossed by the mountain ranges and rivers, that still hold forth. There
were also people here, and they had a government. We call it tribe
rule, and tribal relations. They were savages. Hence, looking backward
as far as history permits, we find the United States a tract of land
that was the home of Nature, and Natures, beasts. Inhabited by the
roaming Indian, whose government and mechanical ability were as widely
different from the present style as the City of Chicago is from old
Fort Dearborn, in Lake Michigan swamps of 1811.

History recounts that European government had succeeded in governing so
that the toiling subjects preferred to come to America, and dwell among
Indians, and rule themselves, than to stay in Europe among friends, and
be ruled by the old style, European government. Be it remembered that
it was not the tangible improvements which were the handiwork of labor,
from which the poor of Europe fled. But it was the European laws that
oppressed them. It was oppression from which they were fleeing. They
did not come to the New Connecticut because it was new, but because it
was the only available place for them. They did not come to America
because they did not like law, or because they did not want to worship
God, but to gain justice and privilege of worship.

The poor came to America to earn a living without kingly interference.
The king sent rulers not to earn a living, but to _get_ a living. The
poor said, "I will go to America and eat bread in the sweat of my
face." The ruler said, "Where you go, I will go also, and I will eat
bread in the sweat of your face." Thus we see that the oppressed came
to America to avoid tyranny, while simultaneously the rulers came over
to impose the very rule the toilers were seeking to avoid. So
successful were they in their purpose that in 1776, the toiling class
(who are always in the majority), concluded that they needed no more
European rule, and in seven years of war, the idle rulers were driven
from America.

In forming the new government, the people, who had so courageously
fought to drive out England's "Kingly" rule, commenced to look for
formulas for a government. They turned to England for precedents,
consequently a government was formed, which in many respects resembled
the English government. Especially was this resemblance noticeable in
the Supreme Court, for the Judges hold office for life, during good
behavior. Right here let me observe that there is no good reason why
the inferior courts should not have a life tenure of office, if such a
policy is correct for the Supreme Court, and if it is better for
inferior courts to hold office for short terms, it is best that the
Supreme Court be subject to the same policy. It is ridiculous that our
representatives should be made such by popular vote, and the laws they
make be construed by a set of judges whose office expires only when the
spirit judge has a harp, and the dust judge has a coffin. Popular vote
retires the inferior judge, a fashionable funeral retires the supreme
judge, but the robe is left as the imperial emblem. It seems to me it
is time to abolish the life tenure of office with our Supreme Court,
and it is entirely fitting that their robes be hung in the curio hall
of some popular museum, as a souvenir of a ridiculous custom no longer
desirable in a popular government. Let me here drop a thought. You may
have it for what you think it is worth. The expressed will of a
majority of the people should be the Supreme Court decision in the
United States. Were that the case an income tax would be
constitutional, and a tariff between the states and some territory
owned and controlled by our government would be unconstitutional.

Since the victory at Yorktown, great questions have been argued and
settled by the laboring men and inventors; great questions have been
argued, but not settled, by the politicians. Washington used candles,
we use electric lights. Washington's four men picked the seed from
twenty-five pounds of cotton per day; four men in our generation, gin
25,000 pounds per day; Washington traveled with horses and oxen, thirty
miles per day; we travel by steam 1,000 miles per day; Washington sent
a letter one hundred miles and waited a week for the answer; we
telegraph thousands of miles and get an answer within the hour;
Washington's voice could be heard a quarter of a mile; we talk and
carry on conversation hundreds of miles. Each of these propositions,
and thousands of others have been settled by the inventors and toilers.
In short and in fine, the difference between the United States with her
natural resources of 125 years ago, and the United States of today,
with her vast farms, great mines, magnificent cities and half a hundred
thousand miles of railroad, and other improvements too numerous to
mention, all this difference, I say, is co-extensive with America
_before and after_ taking the labor treatment. But what can we say of
the politician and his doings during these years, stripped of all
ambiguity, when we tell the unpolished, but plain truth, we must say he
never advanced one iota until he was routed from his old position by
the toiling masses. It is curious to note that every new social,
political, and ethical idea hatches in the same mind and is developed
by the same crowd that contrives the machinery and builds the cities,
railroads, farms, mines, etc.

The politicians, except where labor has compelled them to march
forward, stand where Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson put them when
the Constitution was adopted. Of course there were some steep places in
our governmental structure, and where labor has not buoyed up the
politician, he has occasionally slid back to the rules of King George
the III. As King George had one tax for England at home, and another
for the Colonies, so with us, of late, we have one tax for ourselves
and another for our possessions. (We should, however, give the
politician, due credit for the way he spells colonies.) English style
is to commence with a "C." Our modern style necessitates commencing
with a "P." Then, the pronunciation is different; in England it is
"Colonies," in America, "Possessions." Yet all over the world they mean
the same, to-wit, the strong taxing the weak without allowing
representation.

It is literally true that Henry, Jefferson, Washington, and the Adams
argued the slavery question. As long as we retain the Philippine
Islands, that question still faces us, for their advent to our
possession brought slavery for us to foster, and we are fostering it.

The money question was argued one hundred years ago, and it is still up
for argument.

Politicians still are turning on both wings of the tariff. Republicans
hold to the argument that the European manufacturers, because of the
low wages paid their workingmen, would undersell our home manufacturers
if free trade was adopted by the United States. Democrats contend that
Free Trade will work to benefit 99 per cent of our people, where, as
they claim, protection benefits only 1 per cent, to the injury of the
masses. According to the Chicago Tribune of July 19th, 1902, Europe is
afraid that, unless a high tariff law protects it, American
manufactures will flood their markets, thus hindering their home
industry.

Strange, indeed, that in America we should fear free trade with Europe,
because they pay low wages, and Europe fears free trade with us,
because we pay higher wages.

Another peculiar thing is shown in the Tribune article, when it
mentions that there is not much fear that European nations will agree
on a general tariff law, because, as it says, "Austria might want to
admit free the very articles that France, Germany or England might want
to shut out." Wonder how much the tariff barons of the United States
would pay the Tribune editor for an article in favor of a high
protective tariff that would say, "There is not much danger of a
general tariff law continuing in the United States, because Texas or
Kansas might want to admit free the very things that Massachusetts or
Connecticut might want a high tariff imposed on."

Let us acknowledge the truth. Tariff laws are class legislation. It is
odd, indeed, that we should have such great regard for the interest of
the foreigner on the money question, and then so utterly ignore his
interests on the tariff question. If our hind sight were not better
than our fore sight, it would seem queer to hear politicians advocate
the gold standard and a high tariff, and with the same breath rage
against the trusts, when the trust is simply the fruit of these two
laws.

It were as logical to send a highwayman, train robber or an incendiary
to Congress to break up bank robbings and general stealing as to send
an advocate of the gold standard and protective tariff to Congress to
break up the trusts.

The inventor and laborer are a congenial team and, under their
influence, the world improves and enriches.

The politician and money power are another well mated team, and under
their rule they get the wealth that the other team produces.

The people elect the Representatives; the money power gets the
legislation. Lincoln called the United States a government "of the
people, for the people, and by the people." We have outgrown Lincoln's
time, and there is a suspicion that we are a government of the Trusts,
and for the Trusts, by the Representatives.

I suggest that inasmuch as our Representatives have become
misrepresentatives for the masses, and tools for the classes, it would
be wise to adopt pure Democracy and make our laws by direct legislation.
Then we will have a government of _all_ the people, by _all_ the people,
and for _all_ the people.--If not this plan, what next?








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ONE THOUSAND SECRETS OF WISE AND RICH MEN REVEALED ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


